<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
 <title>Home Manager Manual</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
<script src="highlightjs/highlight.pack.js" type="text/javascript"></script><script src="highlightjs/loader.js" type="text/javascript"></script><script src="anchor-links.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
 <meta name="generator" content="nixos-render-docs" />
 <link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="Home Manager Manual" />
 <link rel="next" href="options.xhtml" title="Appendix A. Home Manager Configuration Options" />
 </head>
 <body>
  <div class="navheader">
   <table width="100%" summary="Navigation header">
    <tr>
    <th colspan="3" align="center">Home Manager Manual</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td width="20%" align="left">&nbsp;</td>
    <th width="60%" align="center">&nbsp;</th>
    <td width="20%" align="right">&nbsp;<a accesskey="n" href="options.xhtml">Next</a></td>
    </tr>
   </table>
   <hr />
  </div>
 <div class="book">
  <div class="titlepage">
   <div>
   <div><h1 class="title"><a id="home-manager-manual"></a>Home Manager Manual</h1></div>
   <div><h2 class="subtitle">Version 26.05 (unstable)</h2></div>
   </div>
   <hr />
  </div>
<div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="preface">  <a href="index.xhtml#preface">Preface</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-introduction">Introduction to Home Manager</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-installation">Installing Home Manager</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-standalone">Standalone installation</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nixos-module">NixOS module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nix-darwin-module">nix-darwin module</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-usage">Using Home Manager</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-configuration">Configuration Example</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-rollbacks">Rollbacks</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-dotfiles">Keeping your ~ safe from harm</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-graphical">Graphical services</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-gpu-non-nixos">GPU on non-NixOS systems</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-modular-services">Modular Services</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-updating">Updating</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release">Upgrading to a new Home Manager release</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-nix-flakes">Nix Flakes</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-prerequisites">Prerequisites</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-standalone">Standalone setup</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nixos-module">NixOS module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nix-darwin-module">nix-darwin module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-flake-parts-module">flake-parts module</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-writing-modules">Writing Home Manager Modules</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-option-types">Option Types</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-contributing">Contributing</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-contrib-getting-started">Getting started</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines">Guidelines</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-news">News</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-tests">Tests</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-internals">Home Manager Internals</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-internals-activation">Activation</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-3rd-party">Third-Party Tools and Extensions</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-3rd-party-module-collections">Module Collections</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="part">  <a href="index.xhtml#ch-faq">Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)</a> </span></dt><dd><dl><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_is_there_a_collision_error_when_switching_generation">Why is there a collision error when switching generation?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_are_the_session_variables_not_set">Why are the session variables not set?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_to_set_up_a_configuration_for_multiple_users_machines">How to set up a configuration for multiple users/machines?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_do_i_get_an_error_message_about_literal_ca_desrt_dconf_literal_or_literal_dconf_service_literal">Why do I get an error message about <code class="literal">ca.desrt.dconf</code> or <code class="literal">dconf.service</code>?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_do_i_install_packages_from_nixpkgs_unstable">How do I install packages from Nixpkgs unstable?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_do_i_change_the_package_used_by_a_module">How do I change the package used by a module?</a> </span></dt></dl></dd><dt> <span class="appendix">  <a href="options.xhtml">A. Home Manager Configuration Options</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="appendix">  <a href="nixos-options.xhtml">B. NixOS Configuration Options</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="appendix">  <a href="nix-darwin-options.xhtml">C. nix-darwin Configuration Options</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="appendix">  <a href="release-notes.xhtml">D. Release Notes</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><div class="list-of-examples"><p><strong>List of Examples</strong></p><dl><dt>1. <a href="index.xhtml#ex-rollback-scenario">Home Manager Rollback</a></dt></dl></div>
<div class="preface"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="preface" class="title" >Preface   </h1>  </div> </div></div><p>This manual will eventually describe how to install, use, and extend Home
Manager.</p><p>If you encounter problems then please reach out on the IRC channel
<a class="link" href="https://webchat.oftc.net/?channels=home-manager"  target="_top">#home-manager</a>
hosted by <a class="link" href="https://oftc.net/"  target="_top">OFTC</a>.
There is also a <a class="link" href="https://matrix.to/#/%23hm:rycee.net"  target="_top">Matrix room</a>,
which is bridged to the IRC channel.
If your problem is caused by a bug in Home Manager then it should
be reported on the
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/issues"  target="_top">Home Manager issue tracker</a>.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>Commands prefixed with <code class="literal">$ sudo</code> have to be run as root, either
requiring to login as root user or temporarily switching to it using
<code class="literal">sudo</code> for example.</p></div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-introduction" class="title" >Introduction to Home Manager   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Home Manager is a <a class="link" href="https://nix.dev/"  target="_top">Nix</a>-powered tool for reproducible management of the contents of users’ home directories.
This includes programs, configuration files, environment variables and, well… arbitrary files.
The following example snippet of Nix code:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">programs.git = {
  enable = true;
  userEmail = &quot;joe@example.org&quot;;
  userName = &quot;joe&quot;;
};
</code></pre><p>would make available to a user the <code class="literal">git</code> executable and man pages and a configuration file <code class="literal">~/.config/git/config</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting ini">[user]
	email = &quot;joe@example.org&quot;
	name = &quot;joe&quot;
</code></pre><p>Since Home Manager is implemented in Nix, it provides several benefits:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>Contents are reproducible — a home will be the exact same every time it is built, unless of course, an intentional change is made.
This also means you can have the exact same home on different hosts.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Significantly faster and more powerful than various backup strategies.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Unlike “dotfiles” repositories, Home Manager supports specifying programs, as well as their configurations.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Supported by <a class="link" href="http://cache.nixos.org/"  target="_top">http://cache.nixos.org/</a>, so that you don’t have to build from source.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you do want to build some programs from source, there is hardly a tool more useful than Nix for that, and the build instructions can be neatly integrated in your Home Manager usage.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Infinitely composable, so that values in different configuration files and build instructions can share a source of truth.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Connects you with the <a class="link" href="https://repology.org/repositories/statistics/total"  target="_top">most extensive</a> and <a class="link" href="https://repology.org/repositories/statistics/newest"  target="_top">most up-to-date</a> software package repository on earth, <a class="link" href="https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs"  target="_top">Nixpkgs</a>.</p></li></ul></div></div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-installation" class="title" >Installing Home Manager   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Home Manager can be used in three primary ways:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Using the standalone <code class="literal">home-manager</code> tool. For platforms other than
NixOS and Darwin, this is the only available choice. It is also
recommended for people on NixOS or Darwin that want to manage their
home directory independently of the system as a whole. See
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-install-standalone" title="Standalone installation" >Standalone installation</a> for instructions
on how to perform this installation.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>As a module within a NixOS system configuration. This allows the
user profiles to be built together with the system when running
<code class="literal">nixos-rebuild</code>. See <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nixos-module" title="NixOS module" >NixOS module</a> for a
description of this setup.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>As a module within a
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-darwin/nix-darwin/"  target="_top">nix-darwin</a> system
configuration. This allows the user profiles to be built together
with the system when running <code class="literal">darwin-rebuild</code>. See <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nix-darwin-module" title="nix-darwin module" >nix-darwin
module</a> for a description of this
setup.</p></li></ol></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>In this chapter we describe how to install Home Manager in the standard
way using channels. If you prefer to use <a class="link" href="https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/Flakes"  target="_top">Nix
Flakes</a> then please see the instructions
in <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#ch-nix-flakes" title="Nix Flakes" >nix flakes</a>.</p></div><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-standalone">Standalone installation</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nixos-module">NixOS module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-install-nix-darwin-module">nix-darwin module</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-install-standalone" class="title" style="clear: both">Standalone installation   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Make sure you have a working Nix installation. Specifically, make
sure that your user is able to build and install Nix packages. For
example, you should be able to successfully run a command like
<code class="literal">nix-instantiate &#x27;&lt;nixpkgs&gt;&#x27; -A hello</code> without having to switch to
the root user. For a multi-user install of Nix this means that your
user must be covered by the
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/nix/manual/#conf-allowed-users"  target="_top"><code class="literal">allowed-users</code></a>
Nix option. On NixOS you can control this option using the
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/options.html#opt-nix.settings.allowed-users"  target="_top"><code class="literal">nix.settings.allowed-users</code></a>
system option.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Add the appropriate Home Manager channel. If you are following
Nixpkgs master or an unstable channel you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/master.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>and if you follow a Nixpkgs version 25.11 channel you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
</code></pre></li><li class="listitem"><p>Run the Home Manager installation command and create the first Home
Manager generation:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-shell &#x27;&lt;home-manager&gt;&#x27; -A install
</code></pre><p>Once finished, Home Manager should be active and available in your
user environment.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you do not plan on having Home Manager manage your shell
configuration then you must source the</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh
</code></pre><p>file in your shell configuration. Alternatively source</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">/etc/profiles/per-user/$USER/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh
</code></pre><p>when managing home configuration together with system configuration.</p><p>This file can be sourced directly by POSIX.2-like shells such as
<a class="link" href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/"  target="_top">Bash</a> or <a class="link" href="http://zsh.sourceforge.net/"  target="_top">Z
shell</a>. <a class="link" href="https://fishshell.com"  target="_top">Fish</a>
users can use utilities such as
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/oh-my-fish/plugin-foreign-env"  target="_top">foreign-env</a> or
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/bouk/babelfish"  target="_top">babelfish</a>.</p><p>For example, if you use Bash then add</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>to your <code class="literal">~/.profile</code> file.</p></li></ol></div><p>If instead of using channels you want to run Home Manager from a Git
checkout of the repository then you can use the
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.home-manager.path"  >home-manager.path</a> option to specify the absolute
path to the repository.</p><p>Once installed you can see <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#ch-usage" title="Using Home Manager" >Using Home Manager</a> for a more detailed
description of Home Manager and how to use it.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-install-nixos-module" class="title" style="clear: both">NixOS module   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager provides a NixOS module that allows you to prepare user
environments directly from the system configuration file, which often is
more convenient than using the <code class="literal">home-manager</code> tool. It also opens up
additional possibilities, for example, to automatically configure user
environments in NixOS declarative containers or on systems deployed
through NixOps.</p><p>To make the NixOS module available for use you must <code class="literal">import</code> it into
your system configuration. This is most conveniently done by adding a
Home Manager channel to the root user. For example, if you are following
Nixpkgs master or an unstable channel, you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ sudo nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/master.tar.gz home-manager
$ sudo nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>and if you follow a Nixpkgs version 25.11 channel, you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ sudo nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ sudo nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>It is then possible to add</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">imports = [ &lt;home-manager/nixos&gt; ];
</code></pre><p>to your system <code class="literal">configuration.nix</code> file, which will introduce a new
NixOS option called <code class="literal">home-manager.users</code> whose type is an attribute set
that maps user names to Home Manager configurations.</p><p>Alternatively, home-manager installation can be done declaratively through configuration.nix using the following syntax:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ config, pkgs, lib, ... }:

let
  home-manager = builtins.fetchTarball https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz;
in
{
  imports =
    [
      (import &quot;${home-manager}/nixos&quot;)
    ];

  users.users.eve.isNormalUser = true;
  home-manager.users.eve = { pkgs, ... }: {
    home.packages = [ pkgs.atool pkgs.httpie ];
    programs.bash.enable = true;

    # The state version is required and should stay at the version you
    # originally installed.
    home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;;
  };
}
</code></pre><p>For example, a NixOS configuration may include the lines</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">users.users.eve.isNormalUser = true;
home-manager.users.eve = { pkgs, ... }: {
  home.packages = [ pkgs.atool pkgs.httpie ];
  programs.bash.enable = true;

  # This value determines the Home Manager release that your configuration is
  # compatible with. This helps avoid breakage when a new Home Manager release
  # introduces backwards incompatible changes.
  #
  # You should not change this value, even if you update Home Manager. If you do
  # want to update the value, then make sure to first check the Home Manager
  # release notes.
  home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;; # Please read the comment before changing. 

};
</code></pre><p>and after a <code class="literal">sudo nixos-rebuild switch</code> the user eve’s environment
should include a basic Bash configuration and the packages atool and
httpie.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>If <code class="literal">nixos-rebuild switch</code> does not result in the environment you expect,
you can take a look at the output of the Home Manager activation script
output using</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ systemctl status &quot;home-manager-$USER.service&quot;
</code></pre></div><p>If you do not plan on having Home Manager manage your shell
configuration then you must add either</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>or</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;/etc/profiles/per-user/$USER/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>to your shell configuration, depending on whether
<a class="link" href="nixos-options.xhtml#nixos-opt-home-manager.useUserPackages"  >home-manager.useUserPackages</a> is enabled. This file can
be sourced directly by POSIX.2-like shells such as
<a class="link" href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/"  target="_top">Bash</a> or <a class="link" href="http://zsh.sourceforge.net/"  target="_top">Z
shell</a>. <a class="link" href="https://fishshell.com"  target="_top">Fish</a> users
can use utilities such as
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/oh-my-fish/plugin-foreign-env"  target="_top">foreign-env</a> or
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/bouk/babelfish"  target="_top">babelfish</a>.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>By default packages will be installed to <code class="literal">$HOME/.nix-profile</code> but they
can be installed to <code class="literal">/etc/profiles</code> if</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home-manager.useUserPackages = true;
</code></pre><p>is added to the system configuration. This is necessary if, for example,
you wish to use <code class="literal">nixos-rebuild build-vm</code>. This option may become the
default value in the future.</p></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>By default, Home Manager uses a private <code class="literal">pkgs</code> instance that is
configured via the <code class="literal">home-manager.users.&lt;name&gt;.nixpkgs</code> options. To
instead use the global <code class="literal">pkgs</code> that is configured via the system level
<code class="literal">nixpkgs</code> options, set</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true;
</code></pre><p>This saves an extra Nixpkgs evaluation, adds consistency, and removes
the dependency on <code class="literal">NIX_PATH</code>, which is otherwise used for importing
Nixpkgs.</p></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>Home Manager will pass <code class="literal">osConfig</code> as a module argument to any modules
you create. This contains the system’s NixOS configuration.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ lib, pkgs, osConfig, ... }:
</code></pre></div><p>Once installed you can see <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#ch-usage" title="Using Home Manager" >Using Home Manager</a> for a more detailed
description of Home Manager and how to use it.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-install-nix-darwin-module" class="title" style="clear: both">nix-darwin module   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager provides a module that allows you to prepare user
environments directly from the
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-darwin/nix-darwin/"  target="_top">nix-darwin</a> configuration file,
which often is more convenient than using the <code class="literal">home-manager</code> tool.</p><p>To make the nix-darwin module available for use you must <code class="literal">import</code> it
into your system configuration. This is most conveniently done by adding
a Home Manager channel. For example, if you are following Nixpkgs master
or an unstable channel, you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/master.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>and if you follow a Nixpkgs version 25.11 channel, you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>It is then possible to add</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">imports = [ &lt;home-manager/nix-darwin&gt; ];
</code></pre><p>to your nix-darwin <code class="literal">configuration.nix</code> file, which will introduce a
<code class="literal">home-manager.users</code> option whose type is an attribute set that maps
user names to Home Manager configurations.</p><p>For example, a nix-darwin configuration may include the lines</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">users.users.eve = {
  name = &quot;eve&quot;;
  home = &quot;/Users/eve&quot;;
};
home-manager.users.eve = { pkgs, ... }: {
  home.packages = [ pkgs.atool pkgs.httpie ];
  programs.bash.enable = true;

  # The state version is required and should stay at the version you
  # originally installed.
  home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;;
};
</code></pre><p>and after a <code class="literal">darwin-rebuild switch</code> the user eve’s environment should
include a basic Bash configuration and the packages atool and httpie.</p><p>If you do not plan on having Home Manager manage your shell
configuration then you must add either</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>or</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;/etc/profiles/per-user/$USER/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>to your shell configuration, depending on whether
<a class="link" href="nix-darwin-options.xhtml#nix-darwin-opt-home-manager.useUserPackages"  >home-manager.useUserPackages</a> is enabled. This
file can be sourced directly by POSIX.2-like shells such as
<a class="link" href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/"  target="_top">Bash</a> or <a class="link" href="http://zsh.sourceforge.net/"  target="_top">Z
shell</a>. <a class="link" href="https://fishshell.com"  target="_top">Fish</a> users
can use utilities such as
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/oh-my-fish/plugin-foreign-env"  target="_top">foreign-env</a> or
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/bouk/babelfish"  target="_top">babelfish</a>.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>By default user packages will not be ignored in favor of
<code class="literal">environment.systemPackages</code>, but they will be installed to
<code class="literal">/etc/profiles/per-user/$USERNAME</code> if</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home-manager.useUserPackages = true;
</code></pre><p>is added to the nix-darwin configuration. This option may become the
default value in the future.</p></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>By default, Home Manager uses a private <code class="literal">pkgs</code> instance that is
configured via the <code class="literal">home-manager.users.&lt;name&gt;.nixpkgs</code> options. To
instead use the global <code class="literal">pkgs</code> that is configured via the system level
<code class="literal">nixpkgs</code> options, set</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true;
</code></pre><p>This saves an extra Nixpkgs evaluation, adds consistency, and removes
the dependency on <code class="literal">NIX_PATH</code>, which is otherwise used for importing
Nixpkgs.</p></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>Home Manager will pass <code class="literal">osConfig</code> as a module argument to any modules
you create. This contains the system’s nix-darwin configuration.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ lib, pkgs, osConfig, ... }:
</code></pre></div><p>Once installed you can see <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#ch-usage" title="Using Home Manager" >Using Home Manager</a> for a more detailed
description of Home Manager and how to use it.</p>
</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-usage" class="title" >Using Home Manager   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Your use of Home Manager is centered around the configuration file,
which is typically found at <code class="literal">~/.config/home-manager/home.nix</code> in the
standard installation or <code class="literal">~/.config/home-manager/flake.nix</code> in a Nix
flake based installation.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>The default configuration used to be placed in <code class="literal">~/.config/nixpkgs</code>¸ so
you may see references to that elsewhere. The old directory still works
but Home Manager will print a warning message when used.</p></div><p>This configuration file can be <span class="emphasis"><em>built</em></span> and <span class="emphasis"><em>activated</em></span>.</p><p>Building a configuration produces a directory in the Nix store that
contains all files and programs that should be available in your home
directory and Nix user profile, respectively. The build step also checks
that the configuration is valid and it will fail with an error if you,
for example, assign a value to an option that does not exist or assign a
value of the wrong type. Some modules also have custom assertions that
perform more detailed, module specific, checks.</p><p>Concretely, if your configuration contains</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">programs.emacs.enable = &quot;yes&quot;;
</code></pre><p>then building it, for example using <code class="literal">home-manager build</code>, will result in
an error message saying something like</p><pre><code class="programlisting console">$ home-manager build
error: A definition for option `programs.emacs.enable&#x27; is not of type `boolean&#x27;. Definition values:
- In `/home/jdoe/.config/home-manager/home.nix&#x27;: &quot;yes&quot;
(use &#x27;--show-trace&#x27; to show detailed location information)
</code></pre><p>The message indicates that you must provide a Boolean value for this
option, that is, either <code class="literal">true</code> or <code class="literal">false</code>. The documentation of each
option will state the expected type, for
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.emacs.enable"  >programs.emacs.enable</a> you will see “Type: boolean”. You
there also find information about the default value and a description of
the option. You can find the complete option documentation in
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml" title="Appendix A. Home Manager Configuration Options" >Home Manager Configuration Options</a> or directly in the terminal by running</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">man home-configuration.nix
</code></pre><p>Once a configuration is successfully built, it can be activated. The
activation performs the steps necessary to make the files, programs, and
services available in your user environment. The <code class="literal">home-manager switch</code>
command performs a combined build and activation.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-configuration">Configuration Example</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-rollbacks">Rollbacks</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-dotfiles">Keeping your ~ safe from harm</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-graphical">Graphical services</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-gpu-non-nixos">GPU on non-NixOS systems</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-modular-services">Modular Services</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-updating">Updating</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release">Upgrading to a new Home Manager release</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-configuration" class="title" style="clear: both">Configuration Example   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>A fresh install of Home Manager will generate a minimal
<code class="literal">~/.config/home-manager/home.nix</code> file containing something like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ config, pkgs, ... }:

{
  # Home Manager needs a bit of information about you and the
  # paths it should manage.
  home.username = &quot;jdoe&quot;;
  home.homeDirectory = &quot;/home/jdoe&quot;;

  # This value determines the Home Manager release that your
  # configuration is compatible with. This helps avoid breakage
  # when a new Home Manager release introduces backwards
  # incompatible changes.
  #
  # You can update Home Manager without changing this value. See
  # the Home Manager release notes for a list of state version
  # changes in each release.
  home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;;

  # Let Home Manager install and manage itself.
  programs.home-manager.enable = true;
}
</code></pre><p>You can use this as a base for your further configurations.</p><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>If you are not very familiar with the Nix language and NixOS modules
then it is encouraged to start with small and simple changes. As you
learn you can gradually grow the configuration with confidence.</p></div><p>As an example, let us expand the initial configuration file to also
install the htop and fortune packages, install Emacs with a few extra
packages available, and enable the user gpg-agent service.</p><p>To satisfy the above setup we should elaborate the <code class="literal">home.nix</code> file as
follows:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ config, pkgs, ... }:

{
  # Home Manager needs a bit of information about you and the
  # paths it should manage.
  home.username = &quot;jdoe&quot;;
  home.homeDirectory = &quot;/home/jdoe&quot;;

  # Packages that should be installed to the user profile.
  home.packages = [
    pkgs.htop
    pkgs.fortune
  ];

  # This value determines the Home Manager release that your
  # configuration is compatible with. This helps avoid breakage
  # when a new Home Manager release introduces backwards
  # incompatible changes.
  #
  # You can update Home Manager without changing this value. See
  # the Home Manager release notes for a list of state version
  # changes in each release.
  home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;;

  # Let Home Manager install and manage itself.
  programs.home-manager.enable = true;

  programs.emacs = {
    enable = true;
    extraPackages = epkgs: [
      epkgs.nix-mode
      epkgs.magit
    ];
  };

  services.gpg-agent = {
    enable = true;
    defaultCacheTtl = 1800;
    enableSshSupport = true;
  };
}
</code></pre><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>Nixpkgs packages can be installed to the user profile using
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-home.packages"  >home.packages</a>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The option names of a program module typically start with
<code class="literal">programs.&lt;package name&gt;</code>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Similarly, for a service module, the names start with
<code class="literal">services.&lt;package name&gt;</code>. Note in some cases a package has both
programs <span class="emphasis"><em>and</em></span> service options – Emacs is such an example.</p></li></ul></div><p>To activate this configuration you can run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">home-manager switch
</code></pre><p>or if you are not feeling so lucky,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">home-manager build
</code></pre><p>which will create a <code class="literal">result</code> link to a directory containing an
activation script and the generated home directory files.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-rollbacks" class="title" style="clear: both">Rollbacks   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>When you perform a <code class="literal">home-manager switch</code> and discover a problem then
it is possible to <span class="emphasis"><em>roll back</em></span> to the previous version of your
configuration using <code class="literal">home-manager switch --rollback</code>. This will turn
the previous configuration into the current configuration.</p><div class="example"><span id="ex-rollback-scenario" ></span><details><summary><span class="title"><strong>Example 1. Home Manager Rollback</strong></span></summary><div class="example-contents"><p>Imagine you have just updated Nixpkgs and switched to a new Home
Manager configuration. You discover that a package update included in
your new configuration has a bug that was not present in the previous
configuration.</p><p>You can then run <code class="literal">home-manager switch --rollback</code> to recover your
previous configuration, which includes the working version of the
package.</p><p>To see what happened above we can observe the list of Home Manager
generations before and after the rollback:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager generations
2024-01-04 11:56 : id 765 -&gt; /nix/store/kahm1rxk77mnvd2l8pfvd4jkkffk5ijk-home-manager-generation (current)
2024-01-03 10:29 : id 764 -&gt; /nix/store/2wsmsliqr5yynqkdyjzb1y57pr5q2lsj-home-manager-generation
2024-01-01 12:21 : id 763 -&gt; /nix/store/mv960kl9chn2lal5q8lnqdp1ygxngcd1-home-manager-generation
2023-12-29 21:03 : id 762 -&gt; /nix/store/6c0k1r03fxckql4vgqcn9ccb616ynb94-home-manager-generation
2023-12-25 18:51 : id 761 -&gt; /nix/store/czc5y6vi1rvnkfv83cs3rn84jarcgsgh-home-manager-generation
…

$ home-manager switch --rollback
Starting home manager activation
…

$ home-manager generations
2024-01-04 11:56 : id 765 -&gt; /nix/store/kahm1rxk77mnvd2l8pfvd4jkkffk5ijk-home-manager-generation
2024-01-03 10:29 : id 764 -&gt; /nix/store/2wsmsliqr5yynqkdyjzb1y57pr5q2lsj-home-manager-generation (current)
2024-01-01 12:21 : id 763 -&gt; /nix/store/mv960kl9chn2lal5q8lnqdp1ygxngcd1-home-manager-generation
2023-12-29 21:03 : id 762 -&gt; /nix/store/6c0k1r03fxckql4vgqcn9ccb616ynb94-home-manager-generation
2023-12-25 18:51 : id 761 -&gt; /nix/store/czc5y6vi1rvnkfv83cs3rn84jarcgsgh-home-manager-generation
…
</code></pre></div></details></div><br class="example-break" />
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-dotfiles" class="title" style="clear: both">Keeping your ~ safe from harm   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-dotfiles-collisions">Resolving file collisions</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-dotfiles-advanced">Advanced file behavior</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>To configure programs and services Home Manager must write various
things to your home directory. To prevent overwriting any existing files
when switching to a new generation, Home Manager will attempt to detect
collisions between existing files and generated files. If any such
collision is detected the activation will terminate before changing
anything on your computer.</p><p>For example, suppose you have a wonderful, painstakingly created
<code class="literal">~/.config/git/config</code> and add</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  # …

  programs.git = {
    enable = true;
    userName = &quot;Jane Doe&quot;;
    userEmail = &quot;jane.doe@example.org&quot;;
  };

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>to your configuration. Attempting to switch to the generation will then
result in</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager switch
…
Activating checkLinkTargets
Existing file &#x27;/home/jdoe/.config/git/config&#x27; is in the way
Please move the above files and try again
</code></pre><p>This error is about a file that Home Manager wants to manage as a
symbolic link in your home directory. It is separate from package
profile collisions, which usually mention <code class="literal">installPackages</code> or a
<code class="literal">collision between .../bin/...</code> path. For package collisions, see
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#_why_is_there_a_collision_error_when_switching_generation" title="Why is there a collision error when switching generation?" >Why is there a collision error when switching generation?</a>.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-dotfiles-collisions" class="title" >Resolving file collisions   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The safest resolution is to inspect the existing path, move any
settings you want Home Manager to manage into your configuration, and
remove or move the unmanaged file before switching again.</p><p>For a standalone Home Manager installation, you can ask Home Manager to
move unmanaged non-symlink paths out of the way during activation:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">home-manager switch -b backup
</code></pre><p>With the command above, a colliding <code class="literal">~/.config/git/config</code> is moved to
<code class="literal">~/.config/git/config.backup</code> before Home Manager links the managed
file. If the backup path already exists then activation still aborts, so
choose an extension whose backup path does not already exist.</p><p>Standalone activation can also run a custom command for each collision:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">home-manager switch -B trash-put
</code></pre><p>The command receives the colliding path as an argument and must move or
remove that path. If both <code class="literal">-B</code> and <code class="literal">-b</code> are set, the custom command takes
precedence; the command may still use the
<code class="literal">HOME_MANAGER_BACKUP_EXT</code> environment variable set by <code class="literal">-b</code>.</p><p>When Home Manager is used as a NixOS or nix-darwin module, configure the
corresponding module options instead of passing standalone command line
flags:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  home-manager.backupFileExtension = &quot;backup&quot;;
}
</code></pre><p>or</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  home-manager.backupCommand = &quot;${pkgs.trash-cli}/bin/trash-put&quot;;
}
</code></pre><p>If both <code class="option">home-manager.backupCommand</code> and
<code class="option">home-manager.backupFileExtension</code> are set, the command takes
precedence. The extension is still exported to the command as
<code class="literal">HOME_MANAGER_BACKUP_EXT</code>, so the command can use it when implementing
its own backup naming. With
<code class="option">home-manager.backupFileExtension</code>, Home Manager refuses to
replace an existing backup path unless
<code class="option">home-manager.overwriteBackup</code> is enabled:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  home-manager.backupFileExtension = &quot;backup&quot;;
  home-manager.overwriteBackup = true;
}
</code></pre><div class="warning"><h3 class="title">Warning</h3><p><code class="option">home-manager.overwriteBackup</code> allows activation to clobber
existing backup files. Only enable it when those backup paths are
disposable.</p></div><p>For individual files, many file options also support <code class="literal">force = true</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  home.file.&quot;.config/example&quot; = {
    source = ./example;
    force = true;
  };
}
</code></pre><p>This skips the collision check for the affected target and lets Home
Manager replace the existing file or link. Use it sparingly; it can
silently delete local changes.</p><p>Backup commands and backup extensions are intended for unmanaged
non-symlink paths. If the colliding target is an unmanaged symbolic
link, move it manually or use <code class="literal">force = true</code> after checking that the
link target is safe to replace.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-dotfiles-advanced" class="title" >Advanced file behavior   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The notes below apply to <code class="option">home.file</code> and to options based on the
same file type, such as <code class="option">xdg.configFile</code>.</p><p>When a file source is a directory, <code class="option">home.file.&lt;name&gt;.recursive</code>
changes how the directory is linked. With the default <code class="literal">recursive = false</code>, the target is one symbolic link to the source directory. With
<code class="literal">recursive = true</code>, Home Manager creates a matching directory tree and
links each leaf file into it.</p><p>Recursive directory linking has special overlap behavior. A direct
duplicate target, such as two managed files both targeting <code class="literal">foo</code>, is an
error. If a recursively linked directory provides <code class="literal">foo/bar</code> and another
managed file also targets <code class="literal">foo/bar</code>, Home Manager keeps the recursive
file by default and ignores the overlapping regular file.</p><p>The <code class="option">home.file.&lt;name&gt;.onChange</code> hook runs after the new files
are linked. For recursive file entries, the hook is always run, so it
should be written to be safe even when no leaf file actually changed.</p><p>Normally a path assigned to <code class="option">home.file.&lt;name&gt;.source</code> is copied
or linked through the Nix store. To make Home Manager create a link to a
live path outside the store, use
<code class="literal">config.lib.file.mkOutOfStoreSymlink</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ config, ... }:

{
  home.file.&quot;.config/example&quot;.source =
    config.lib.file.mkOutOfStoreSymlink ./example;
}
</code></pre><p>This is useful when the target should follow changes to a mutable file
or directory outside the store.</p>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-graphical" class="title" style="clear: both">Graphical services   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager includes a number of services intended to run in a
graphical session, for example <code class="literal">xscreensaver</code> and <code class="literal">dunst</code>.
Unfortunately, such services will not be started automatically unless
you let Home Manager start your X session. That is, you have something
like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  # …

  services.xserver.enable = true;

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>in your system configuration and</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  # …

  xsession.enable = true;
  xsession.windowManager.command = &quot;…&quot;;

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>in your Home Manager configuration.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-gpu-non-nixos" class="title" style="clear: both">GPU on non-NixOS systems   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-gpu-sudo">When sudo is available: fixing the host OS</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-gpu-nosudo">No root access: wrapping programs</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>To access the GPU, programs need access to OpenGL and Vulkan libraries. While
this works transparently on NixOS, it does not on other Linux systems. There are
two options:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist compact"  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Recommended: modify the host system slightly so that the graphics libraries
can be found where programs from Nixpkgs can find them.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Wrap programs from Nixpkgs in an environment which tells them where to find
graphics libraries.</p></li></ol></div><p>The first option is very clean because the needed modifications to the host OS
are small. However, it does require root/sudo access to the system, which may
not be available. The second approach avoids that. However, it injects libraries
from Nixpkgs into the environment of wrapped programs, which can make it
impossible to launch programs of the host OS from wrapped programs.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-gpu-sudo" class="title" >When sudo is available: fixing the host OS   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The <code class="option">targets.genericLinux.gpu</code> module is automatically enabled whenever
the option <code class="option">targets.genericLinux.enable</code> is set (unless
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-gpu-nosudo" title="No root access: wrapping programs" >NixGL</a> is used instead), which is recommended for
non-NixOS Linux distributions in any case. The module can also be explicitly
enabled by setting <code class="option">targets.genericLinux.gpu.enable</code>.</p><p>This module builds a directory containing GPU libraries. When activating the
home configuration by <code class="literal">home-manager switch</code>, the host system is examined: for
compatibility with NixOS, these libraries need to be placed in
<code class="literal">/run/opengl-driver</code>. If this directory does not exist, or contains a different
set of libraries, the activation script will print a warning such as</p><pre><code class="programlisting text">Activating checkExistingGpuDrivers
GPU drivers require an update, run
  sudo /nix/store/HASH-non-nixos-gpu/bin/non-nixos-gpu-setup
</code></pre><p>Because the <code class="literal">/run</code> directory is volatile and disappears on reboot, libraries
cannot be simply copied or linked there. The <code class="literal">non-nixos-gpu-setup</code> script
installs a Systemd service which ensures that the drivers are linked to
<code class="literal">/run/opengl-driver</code> on boot. Home Manager will always check and warn you when
this setup needs to be refreshed.</p><p>If you ever wish to uninstall these drivers, all you need to do is</p><pre><code class="programlisting sh">sudo rm /run/opengl-driver
sudo systemctl disable --now non-nixos-gpu.service
sudo rm /etc/systemd/system/non-nixos-gpu.service
</code></pre><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-usage-gpu-offloading" class="title" >GPU offloading   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>You can use the <code class="option">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.prime.installScript</code> option.
It installs the <code class="literal">prime-offload</code> script which is configured through options under
<code class="option">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.prime</code>. This functionality is independent
from the rest of NixGL and can be used when
<code class="option">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.packages</code> is left <code class="literal">null</code>, which it should be
when using drivers from <code class="literal">/run/opengl-driver</code>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-usage-gpu-nvidia" class="title" >Nvidia drivers   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>If you need to include the proprietary Nvidia drivers, the process is a bit more
involved. You need to:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Determine the exact version used by the host system. Example: <code class="literal">550.163.01</code></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Fetch that version of the drivers from Nvidia and calculate their hash.
Example:</p><pre><code class="programlisting sh">nix store prefetch-file \
  https://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/550.163.01/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-550.163.01.run
</code></pre><p>Attention: the version and architecture are present twice. If you are on an
ARM system, replace <code class="literal">x86_64</code> with <code class="literal">aarch64</code>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Put this information into your home configuration. Example:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">targets.genericLinux.gpu.nvidia = {
  enable = true;
  version = &quot;550.163.01&quot;;
  sha256 = &quot;sha256-74FJ9bNFlUYBRen7+C08ku5Gc1uFYGeqlIh7l1yrmi4=&quot;;
};
</code></pre></li></ol></div><div class="warning"><h3 class="title">Warning</h3><p>The Nvidia driver version <span class="strong"><strong>must</strong></span> match the host system. This means that you
must pay attention when upgrading the system and update the home configuration
as well.</p></div>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-gpu-nosudo" class="title" >No root access: wrapping programs   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The wrapping approach is facilitated by
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/nixGL"  target="_top">NixGL</a>, which can be integrated into
Home Manager.</p><div class="warning"><h3 class="title">Warning</h3><p>This approach can cause issues when a wrapped program from Nixpkgs executes a
program from the host. For example, Firefox from Nixpkgs must be wrapped by
NixGL in order for graphical acceleration to work. If you then download a PDF
file and open it in a PDF viewer that is not installed from Nixpkgs but is
provided by the host distribution, there may be issues. Because Firefox’s
environment injects libraries from NixGL, they are inherited by the PDF viewer,
and unless they are the same or compatible version as the libraries on the host,
the viewer will not work. This problem manifests more often with Vulkan because
it needs a larger set of injected libraries than OpenGL.</p><p>The problem typically manifests with errors similar to</p><pre><code class="programlisting text">/nix/store/HASH-gcc-12.3.0-lib/lib/libstdc++.so.6: version `GLIBCXX_3.4.31&#x27; not found
</code></pre></div><p>To enable the integration, import NixGL into your home configuration, either as
a channel, or as a flake input passed via <code class="literal">extraSpecialArgs</code>. Then, set the
<code class="literal">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.packages</code> option to the package set provided by
NixGL.</p><p>Once integration is enabled, it can be used in two ways: as Nix functions for
wrapping programs installed via Home Manager, and as shell commands for running
programs installed by other means (such as <code class="literal">nix shell</code>). In either case, there
are several wrappers available. They can be broadly categorized</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>by vendor: as Mesa (for Free drivers of all vendors) and Nvidia (for
Nvidia-specific proprietary drivers).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>by GPU selection: as primary and secondary (offloading).</p></li></ul></div><p>For example, the <code class="literal">mesa</code> wrapper provides support for running programs on the
primary GPU for Intel, AMD and Nouveau drivers, while the <code class="literal">mesaPrime</code> wrapper
does the same for the secondary GPU.</p><p><span class="strong"><strong>Note:</strong></span> when using Nvidia wrappers together with flakes, your home
configuration will not be pure and needs to be built using <code class="literal">home-manager switch --impure</code>. Otherwise, the build will fail, complaining about missing attribute
<code class="literal">currentTime</code>.</p><p>Wrapper functions are available under <code class="literal">config.lib.nixGL.wrappers</code>. However, it
can be more convenient to use the <code class="literal">config.lib.nixGL.wrap</code> alias, which can be
configured to use any of the wrappers. It is intended to provide a customization
point when the same home configuration is used across several machines with
different hardware. There is also the <code class="literal">config.lib.nixGL.wrapOffload</code> alias for
two-GPU systems.</p><p>Another convenience is that all wrapper functions are always available. However,
when <code class="literal">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.packages</code> option is unset, they are no-ops.
This allows them to be used even when the home configuration is used on NixOS
machines. The exception is the <code class="literal">prime-offload</code> script which ignores
<code class="literal">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.packages</code> and is installed into the environment
whenever <code class="literal">targets.genericLinux.nixGL.prime.installScript</code> is set. This script,
which can be used to start a program on a secondary GPU, does not depend on
NixGL and is useful on NixOS systems as well.</p><p>Below is an abbreviated example for an Optimus laptop that makes use of both
Mesa and Nvidia wrappers, where the latter is used in dGPU offloading mode. It
demonstrates how to wrap <code class="literal">mpv</code> to run on the integrated Intel GPU, wrap FreeCAD
to run on the Nvidia dGPU, and how to install the wrapper scripts. It also wraps
Xonotic to run on the dGPU, but uses the wrapper function directly for
demonstration purposes.</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ config, lib, pkgs, nixgl, ... }:
{
  targets.genericLinux.nixGL = {
    packages = nixgl.packages;
    defaultWrapper = &quot;mesa&quot;;
    offloadWrapper = &quot;nvidiaPrime&quot;;
    installScripts = [ &quot;mesa&quot; &quot;nvidiaPrime&quot; ];
  };

  programs.mpv = {
    enable = true;
    package = config.lib.nixGL.wrap pkgs.mpv;
  };

  home.packages = [
    (config.lib.nixGL.wrapOffload pkgs.freecad)
    (config.lib.nixGL.wrappers.nvidiaPrime pkgs.xonotic)
  ];
}
</code></pre><p>The above example assumes a flake-based setup where <code class="literal">nixgl</code> was passed from the
flake. When using channels, the example would instead begin with</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ config, lib, pkgs, ... }:
{
  targets.genericLinux.nixGL.packages = import &lt;nixgl&gt; { inherit pkgs; };
  # The rest is the same as above
  ...
</code></pre>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-usage-modular-services" class="title" style="clear: both">Modular Services   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-modular-services-configdata">Configuration data</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-modular-services-scope">Scope notes</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>Home Manager supports nixpkgs
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/unstable/#modular-services"  target="_top">modular services</a>
under <a class="xref" href="options.xhtml#opt-home.services"  ><code class="option">home.services</code></a>. This is the home-manager analog to the
NixOS <code class="literal">system.services</code> namespace: each entry is an abstract service
sourced from <code class="literal">&lt;nixpkgs/lib/services/lib.nix&gt;</code> with the upstream portable
systemd module loaded into it, so service modules shipped with packages
(e.g. <code class="literal">pkgs.&lt;name&gt;.passthru.services.default</code>) drop in unchanged –
the same module evaluates on NixOS and on Home Manager.</p><p>A minimal example – run a one-shot user service from a package’s
modular service definition:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ pkgs, ... }: {
  home.services.tunnel = {
    imports = [ pkgs.ghostunnel.passthru.services.default ];
    ghostunnel = {
      listen = &quot;127.0.0.1:8443&quot;;
      target = &quot;127.0.0.1:8080&quot;;
      cert = &quot;/run/secrets/cert.pem&quot;;
      key = &quot;/run/secrets/key.pem&quot;;
      allowAll = true;
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>This produces <code class="literal">~/.config/systemd/user/tunnel.service</code> with the expected
<code class="literal">ExecStart</code>, <code class="literal">LoadCredential</code>, and <code class="literal">WantedBy=default.target</code>.</p><p>Each service exposes the upstream NixOS-style schema: <a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/unstable/#opt-system.services._name_.process.argv"  target="_top"><code class="literal">process.argv</code></a>,
<code class="literal">systemd.lib</code>, <code class="literal">systemd.mainExecStart</code>, <code class="literal">systemd.service</code>,
<code class="literal">systemd.services</code>, <code class="literal">systemd.sockets</code>. Lifted units are translated from
NixOS-style attrs (<code class="literal">wantedBy</code>, <code class="literal">serviceConfig</code>, <code class="literal">unitConfig</code>,
<code class="literal">environment</code>, …) into the section-based INI shape
(<code class="literal">{ Unit; Service; Install; }</code>) that home-manager’s
<a class="xref" href="options.xhtml#opt-systemd.user.services"  ><code class="option">systemd.user.services</code></a> consumes. Only common keys are mapped
explicitly; uncommon options remain reachable via <code class="literal">unitConfig</code>,
<code class="literal">serviceConfig</code>, or <code class="literal">socketConfig</code>.</p><p>Sub-services (nested <code class="literal">services.&lt;sub&gt;</code> inside another service) and their
units are dashed under the parent service name. The empty unit key
<code class="literal">&quot;&quot;</code> denotes the service’s <span class="emphasis"><em>primary</em></span> unit (lifted to a unit named
after the service itself); <a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/unstable/#opt-system.services._name_.process.argv"  target="_top"><code class="literal">process.argv</code></a> becomes the default
<code class="literal">ExecStart</code> for that unit, which defaults to <code class="literal">WantedBy=default.target</code>.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-modular-services-configdata" class="title" >Configuration data   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Each service can declare configuration files via <code class="literal">configData.&lt;name&gt;</code>.
These are materialized at <code class="literal">$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/system-services/&lt;service&gt;/&lt;name&gt;</code>
(mirroring how NixOS lifts <code class="literal">configData</code> to <code class="literal">environment.etc</code>), with the
absolute path injected back into <code class="literal">configData.&lt;name&gt;.path</code> so the service
can refer to its files at a stable location:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ config, ... }:
{
  home.services.demo = {
    process.argv = [ &quot;/bin/myapp&quot; &quot;--config&quot; config.home.services.demo.configData.&quot;app.toml&quot;.path ];
    configData.&quot;app.toml&quot;.text = &#x27;&#x27;
      port = 1234
    &#x27;&#x27;;
  };
}
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-usage-modular-services-scope" class="title" >Scope notes   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager mirrors the surface of nixpkgs’ portable systemd module:
services and sockets only. Other unit kinds Home Manager supports
natively under <a class="xref" href="options.xhtml#opt-systemd.user.services"  ><code class="option">systemd.user.services</code></a> (timers, paths, mounts, …)
are intentionally not modeled on <code class="literal">home.services</code> until upstream grows them,
to keep both surfaces aligned.</p>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-updating" class="title" style="clear: both">Updating   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-updating-flakes">Flake-Based Configurations</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-updating-channels">Channel-Based Configurations</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>Updating means moving to a newer revision of the Home Manager branch
that your configuration already follows. For example, a configuration
using <code class="literal">release-25.11</code> can update to a newer revision of <code class="literal">release-25.11</code>
without changing release branches.</p><p>If you want to move from one release branch to another, such as
<code class="literal">release-25.05</code> to <code class="literal">release-25.11</code>, or between a release branch and
<code class="literal">master</code>, see
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release" title="Upgrading to a new Home Manager release" >Upgrading to a new Home Manager release</a>.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-updating-flakes" class="title" >Flake-Based Configurations   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Flake inputs are pinned in <code class="literal">flake.lock</code>, and Home Manager will keep using
the pinned revisions until you update that lock file.</p><p>To update all inputs in the flake:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake update
</code></pre><p>To update only specific inputs, name them explicitly:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake update home-manager nixpkgs
</code></pre><p>These commands assume that your current directory is the flake. If not,
pass the flake path or URI with <code class="literal">--flake &lt;flake-uri&gt;</code>.</p><p>After updating the lock file, rebuild with the command for your
installation method.</p><p>For a standalone Home Manager flake:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager switch --flake .
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a NixOS module:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake .
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a nix-darwin module:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ darwin-rebuild switch --flake .
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-updating-channels" class="title" >Channel-Based Configurations   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Channels are mutable references outside the Home Manager configuration
itself. Updating a channel moves it to a newer revision of the same
channel or branch.</p><p>For a standalone Home Manager channel installation, update the user’s
channels and then switch:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --update
…
unpacking channels...
$ home-manager switch
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a NixOS module, update the root user’s Home Manager
channel and rebuild the system:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ sudo nix-channel --update home-manager
$ sudo nixos-rebuild switch
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a nix-darwin module, update the Home Manager channel
used by your nix-darwin configuration and rebuild the system:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --update home-manager
$ darwin-rebuild switch
</code></pre>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-upgrade-release" class="title" style="clear: both">Upgrading to a new Home Manager release   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-overview">Overview</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-understanding-versioning">Understanding Home Manager Versioning</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-understanding-flake">Flake-Based Installation</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-understanding-channel">Channel-Based Installation</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-state-version">State Version Management</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-state-troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-upgrade-release-resources">Additional Resources</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-overview" class="title" >Overview   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>When moving your configuration to a new Nixpkgs release branch, you
should also move Home Manager to the matching release branch. On NixOS
this usually means upgrading Home Manager together with NixOS. On
standalone and nix-darwin installations, match Home Manager to the
Nixpkgs branch used by your configuration. The examples below use 25.11;
replace this with the release branch you are upgrading to.</p><p>If your configuration follows <code class="literal">nixos-unstable</code> or <code class="literal">nixpkgs-unstable</code>,
use Home Manager’s <code class="literal">master</code> branch.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-understanding-versioning" class="title" >Understanding Home Manager Versioning   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager follows NixOS release cycles and provides corresponding branches:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>release-&lt;version&gt;</strong></span>: Stable branch for the matching NixOS or
Nixpkgs release, such as <code class="literal">release-25.11</code>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>master</strong></span>: Development branch (tracks nixos-unstable)</p></li></ul></div><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>Use the Home Manager branch that matches the Nixpkgs branch used to
evaluate your Home Manager configuration. For stable NixOS
configurations, this is normally the same as your NixOS version.</p></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-understanding-flake" class="title" >Flake-Based Installation   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>If you are using Home Manager with Nix flakes, update your <code class="literal">nixpkgs</code> and
<code class="literal">home-manager</code> inputs together:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  description = &quot;Home Manager configuration&quot;;

  inputs = {
    # Match the Nixpkgs branch to the release you are using.
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11&quot;;

    home-manager = {
      # Match the Home Manager branch to the Nixpkgs branch above.
      url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager/release-25.11&quot;;
    };
  };

  outputs = { nixpkgs, home-manager, ... }: {
    homeConfigurations.&quot;yourusername&quot; = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
      pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages.x86_64-linux;
      modules = [ ./home.nix ];
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>For <code class="literal">nixos-unstable</code> or <code class="literal">nixpkgs-unstable</code>, use the <code class="literal">master</code> branch
instead:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable&quot;;

    home-manager = {
      url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager&quot;;
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>Then update the lock file and rebuild using the command for your
installation method.</p><p>For a standalone Home Manager flake:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake update
$ home-manager switch --flake .
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a NixOS module:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake update
$ sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake .
</code></pre><p>For Home Manager as a nix-darwin module:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake update
$ darwin-rebuild switch --flake .
</code></pre><p>These commands assume that your current directory is the flake. If not,
pass the flake path or URI with <code class="literal">--flake &lt;flake-uri&gt;</code>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-understanding-channel" class="title" >Channel-Based Installation   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>For a standalone channel-based installation, first verify your current
Home Manager channel:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --list
</code></pre><p>The entry identifies the Home Manager branch currently in use. For
example:</p><pre><code class="programlisting">home-manager https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz
</code></pre><p>Update the Home Manager channel to the branch matching your Nixpkgs
release, then switch:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
$ home-manager switch
</code></pre><p>When Home Manager is installed as a NixOS module with channels, update
the root user’s Home Manager channel and rebuild the system:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ sudo nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ sudo nix-channel --update
$ sudo nixos-rebuild switch
</code></pre><p>When Home Manager is installed as a nix-darwin module with channels,
update the Home Manager channel used by your nix-darwin configuration
and rebuild the system:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/archive/release-25.11.tar.gz home-manager
$ nix-channel --update
$ darwin-rebuild switch
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-state-version" class="title" >State Version Management   </h3>  </div> </div></div><div class="warning"><h3 class="title">Warning</h3><p>Careful updating your <code class="literal">home.stateVersion</code> when upgrading Home Manager.</p></div><p>The <code class="literal">stateVersion</code> should remain set to the Home Manager release you
first used for this home configuration.</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  # Example: if this home configuration was first created on 24.11.
  home.stateVersion = &quot;24.11&quot;;
}
</code></pre><p><span class="strong"><strong>Why?</strong></span> The <code class="literal">stateVersion</code> ensures backward compatibility and
prevents breaking changes from affecting your existing configuration.</p><p><span class="strong"><strong>Remember:</strong></span> Channel or flake input version is not the same as state
version. Update Home Manager, keep <code class="literal">home.stateVersion</code> unchanged, and
only change it after reading the release notes and migrating any
affected configuration.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-state-troubleshooting" class="title" >Troubleshooting   </h3>  </div> </div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-upgrade-release-state-troubleshooting-common-issues" class="title" >Common Issues   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>Check the <a class="link" href="release-notes.xhtml" title="Appendix D. Release Notes" >Home Manager Release Notes</a> for breaking changes.</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Version Mismatch Warning</strong></span>: If you see warnings about version
mismatches, ensure your Home Manager branch matches the Nixpkgs
branch used by your configuration. For NixOS stable releases, this
usually means matching your NixOS version.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Module Changes</strong></span>: Modules are constantly being updated with new
features to keep up with changes in upstream packaging or to fix
bugs and add features. If you have an unexpected change, check if
there was something noted in the release notes or news entries.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Channel Not Found</strong></span>: If <code class="literal">nix-channel --list</code> shows no channels,
you might be using a different installation method, such as flakes,
or Home Manager may be imported through your system configuration.</p></li></ol></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-upgrade-release-state-troubleshooting-verification" class="title" >Verification   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>After upgrading, verify the installation:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager --version
</code></pre><p>This should show the Home Manager version or indicate that it is using
the expected release branch.</p>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-upgrade-release-resources" class="title" >Additional Resources   </h3>  </div> </div></div><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/release-notes"  target="_top">NixOS Stable Release Notes</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="release-notes.xhtml" title="Appendix D. Release Notes" >Home Manager Release Notes</a></p></li></ul></div>
</div>

</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-nix-flakes" class="title" >Nix Flakes   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Home Manager is compatible with <a class="link" href="https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/Flakes"  target="_top">Nix
Flakes</a>. But please be aware that this
support is still experimental and may change in backwards
incompatible ways.</p><p>Just like in the standard installation you can use the Home Manager
flake in three ways:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Using the standalone <code class="literal">home-manager</code> tool. For platforms other than
NixOS and Darwin, this is the only available choice. It is also
recommended for people on NixOS or Darwin that want to manage their
home directory independently of the system as a whole. See
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-standalone" title="Standalone setup" >Standalone setup</a> for instructions on how
to perform this installation.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>As a module within a NixOS system configuration. This allows the
user profiles to be built together with the system when running
<code class="literal">nixos-rebuild</code>. See <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nixos-module" title="NixOS module" >NixOS module</a> for a
description of this setup.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>As a module within a <a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-darwin/nix-darwin/"  target="_top">nix-darwin</a>
system configuration. This allows the user profiles to be built
together with the system when running <code class="literal">darwin-rebuild</code>. See
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nix-darwin-module" title="nix-darwin module" >nix-darwin module</a> for a
description of this setup.</p></li></ol></div><p>Advanced users may want Home Manager’s <code class="literal">nixpkgs</code> input to follow the
same Nixpkgs input as the rest of their flake. This avoids a second
Nixpkgs input and makes Home Manager use the same pinned Nixpkgs source
revision as the rest of the configuration:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home-manager.inputs.nixpkgs.follows = &quot;nixpkgs&quot;;
</code></pre><p>This removes the compatibility assumption between Home Manager and the
Nixpkgs revision in Home Manager’s own lock file, so use it carefully,
especially when tracking unstable branches.</p><p>This does not by itself make Home Manager use the same <code class="literal">pkgs</code> value as
your NixOS or nix-darwin system. In NixOS and nix-darwin module setups,
<code class="literal">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true</code> controls that behavior by making
Home Manager modules receive the system <code class="literal">pkgs</code> value. When
<code class="literal">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs</code> is enabled, configure Nixpkgs overlays and
configuration at the system level instead of through Home Manager
<code class="literal">nixpkgs.*</code> options.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-prerequisites">Prerequisites</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-standalone">Standalone setup</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nixos-module">NixOS module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-nix-darwin-module">nix-darwin module</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-flake-parts-module">flake-parts module</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-flakes-prerequisites" class="title" style="clear: both">Prerequisites   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>Install Nix 2.4 or later, or have it in <code class="literal">nix-shell</code>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Enable experimental features <code class="literal">nix-command</code> and <code class="literal">flakes</code>.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: circle;"><li class="listitem"><p>When using NixOS, add the following to your <code class="literal">configuration.nix</code>
and rebuild your system.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">nix.settings.experimental-features = &quot;nix-command flakes&quot;;
</code></pre></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you are not using NixOS, add the following to <code class="literal">nix.conf</code>
(located at <code class="literal">~/.config/nix/</code> or <code class="literal">/etc/nix/nix.conf</code>).</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">experimental-features = nix-command flakes
</code></pre><p>You may need to restart the Nix daemon with, for example,
<code class="literal">sudo systemctl restart nix-daemon.service</code>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Alternatively, you can enable flakes on a per-command basis with
the following additional flags to <code class="literal">nix</code> and <code class="literal">home-manager</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix --extra-experimental-features &quot;nix-command flakes&quot; &lt;sub-commands&gt;
$ home-manager --extra-experimental-features &quot;nix-command flakes&quot; &lt;sub-commands&gt;
</code></pre></li></ul></div></li><li class="listitem"><p>Prepare your Home Manager configuration (<code class="literal">home.nix</code>).</p><p>Unlike the channel-based setup, <code class="literal">home.nix</code> will be evaluated when
the flake is built, so it must be present before bootstrap of Home
Manager from the flake. See <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-usage-configuration" title="Configuration Example" >Configuration Example</a> for
introduction about writing a Home Manager configuration.</p></li></ul></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-flakes-standalone" class="title" style="clear: both">Standalone setup   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>To prepare an initial Home Manager configuration for your logged in
user, you can run the Home Manager <code class="literal">init</code> command directly from its
flake.</p><p>For example, if you are using the unstable version of Nixpkgs or NixOS,
then to generate and activate a basic configuration run the command</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix run home-manager/master -- init --switch
</code></pre><p>For Nixpkgs or NixOS version 25.11 run</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix run home-manager/release-25.11 -- init --switch
</code></pre><p>This will generate a <code class="literal">flake.nix</code> and a <code class="literal">home.nix</code> file in
<code class="literal">~/.config/home-manager</code>, creating the directory if it does not exist.</p><p>If you need to pass additional values from your flake to <code class="literal">home.nix</code> or any
imported Home Manager modules, use <code class="literal">extraSpecialArgs</code> in the call to
<code class="literal">home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:nixos/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable&quot;;
    home-manager.url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager&quot;;
  };

  outputs = inputs@{ nixpkgs, home-manager, ... }: {
    homeConfigurations.jdoe = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
      pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages.x86_64-linux;
      extraSpecialArgs = { inherit inputs; };
      modules = [ ./home.nix ];
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>Any attribute in <code class="literal">extraSpecialArgs</code> becomes a module argument, so <code class="literal">home.nix</code>
or imported modules can declare arguments such as <code class="literal">{ inputs, ... }:</code>.</p><p>The lower-level mechanism behind this is <code class="literal">_module.args</code>. Set
<code class="literal">_module.args.&lt;name&gt;</code> from inside a module only when you need to provide a
module argument from within the module graph itself. For values that originate
outside the module graph, such as flake inputs, prefer <code class="literal">extraSpecialArgs</code>.</p><p>If you omit the <code class="literal">--switch</code> option then the activation will not happen.
This is useful if you want to inspect and edit the configuration before
activating it.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix run home-manager/$branch -- init
$ # Edit files in ~/.config/home-manager
$ nix run home-manager/$branch -- init --switch
</code></pre><p>Where <code class="literal">$branch</code> is one of <code class="literal">master</code> or <code class="literal">release-25.11</code>.</p><p>After the initial activation has completed successfully then building
and activating your flake-based configuration is as simple as</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager switch
</code></pre><p>It is possible to override the default configuration directory, if you
want. For example,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix run home-manager/$branch -- init --switch ~/hmconf
$ # And after the initial activation.
$ home-manager switch --flake ~/hmconf
</code></pre><div class="note"><h3 class="title">Note</h3><p>The flake inputs are not automatically updated by Home Manager. Update
the lock file with <code class="literal">nix flake update</code> before switching if you want to
use newer input revisions.</p><p>If you only want to update specific flake inputs, name them explicitly,
for example <code class="literal">nix flake update nixpkgs home-manager</code>.</p><p>These commands assume that your current directory is the flake. If not,
pass the flake path or URI with <code class="literal">--flake &lt;flake-uri&gt;</code>.</p></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-flakes-nixos-module" class="title" style="clear: both">NixOS module   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>To use Home Manager as a NixOS module, a bare-minimum <code class="literal">flake.nix</code> would
be as follows:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  description = &quot;NixOS configuration&quot;;

  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:nixos/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable&quot;;
    home-manager.url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager&quot;;
  };

  outputs = inputs@{ nixpkgs, home-manager, ... }: {
    nixosConfigurations = {
      hostname = nixpkgs.lib.nixosSystem {
        system = &quot;x86_64-linux&quot;;
        modules = [
          ./configuration.nix
          home-manager.nixosModules.home-manager
          {
            home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true;
            home-manager.useUserPackages = true;
            home-manager.extraSpecialArgs = { inherit inputs; };
            home-manager.users.jdoe = ./home.nix;
          }
        ];
      };
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>Use <code class="literal">home-manager.extraSpecialArgs</code> to pass arguments from your flake to
<code class="literal">home.nix</code> and any imported Home Manager modules. For example, the
configuration above makes the complete <code class="literal">inputs</code> attrset available to modules,
so they can declare arguments such as <code class="literal">{ inputs, ... }:</code>.</p><p>The lower-level mechanism behind this is <code class="literal">_module.args</code>. Set
<code class="literal">_module.args.&lt;name&gt;</code> from inside a module only when you need to provide a
module argument from within the module graph itself. For values that originate
outside the module graph, such as flake inputs, prefer
<code class="literal">home-manager.extraSpecialArgs</code>.</p><p>The Home Manager configuration is then part of the NixOS configuration
and is automatically rebuilt with the system when using the appropriate
command for the system, such as</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nixos-rebuild switch --flake /etc/nixos
</code></pre><p>You can use the above <code class="literal">flake.nix</code> as a template in <code class="literal">/etc/nixos</code> by</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake new /etc/nixos -t github:nix-community/home-manager#nixos
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-flakes-nix-darwin-module" class="title" style="clear: both">nix-darwin module   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>The flake-based setup of the Home Manager nix-darwin module is similar
to that of NixOS. The <code class="literal">flake.nix</code> would be:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  description = &quot;Darwin configuration&quot;;

  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:nixos/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable&quot;;
    darwin.url = &quot;github:nix-darwin/nix-darwin&quot;;
    darwin.inputs.nixpkgs.follows = &quot;nixpkgs&quot;;
    home-manager.url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager&quot;;
  };

  outputs = inputs@{ nixpkgs, home-manager, darwin, ... }: {
    darwinConfigurations = {
      hostname = darwin.lib.darwinSystem {
        system = &quot;x86_64-darwin&quot;;
        modules = [
          ./configuration.nix
          home-manager.darwinModules.home-manager
          {
            home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true;
            home-manager.useUserPackages = true;
            home-manager.extraSpecialArgs = { inherit inputs; };
            home-manager.users.jdoe = ./home.nix;
          }
        ];
      };
    };
  };
}
</code></pre><p>Use <code class="literal">home-manager.extraSpecialArgs</code> to pass arguments from your flake to
<code class="literal">home.nix</code> and any imported Home Manager modules. For example, the
configuration above makes the complete <code class="literal">inputs</code> attrset available to modules,
so they can declare arguments such as <code class="literal">{ inputs, ... }:</code>.</p><p>The lower-level mechanism behind this is <code class="literal">_module.args</code>. Set
<code class="literal">_module.args.&lt;name&gt;</code> from inside a module only when you need to provide a
module argument from within the module graph itself. For values that originate
outside the module graph, such as flake inputs, prefer
<code class="literal">home-manager.extraSpecialArgs</code>.</p><p>and it is also rebuilt with the nix-darwin generations. The rebuild
command here may be <code class="literal">darwin-rebuild switch --flake ~/.config/darwin</code>.</p><p>You can use the above <code class="literal">flake.nix</code> as a template in <code class="literal">~/.config/darwin</code> by</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix flake new ~/.config/darwin -t github:nix-community/home-manager#nix-darwin
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-flakes-flake-parts-module" class="title" style="clear: both">flake-parts module   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>When using <a class="link" href="https://flake.parts"  target="_top">flake-parts</a> you may wish to import Home
Manager’s flake module, <code class="literal">flakeModules.home-manager</code>.</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  description = &quot;flake-parts configuration&quot;;

  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:nixos/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable&quot;;
    home-manager.url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager&quot;;
    flake-parts.url = &quot;github:hercules-ci/flake-parts&quot;;
  };

  outputs = inputs@{
    flake-parts,
    home-manager,
    nixpkgs,
    ...
  }:
    flake-parts.lib.mkFlake { inherit inputs; } {
      imports = [
        # Import home-manager&#x27;s flake module
        inputs.home-manager.flakeModules.home-manager
      ];
      flake = {
        # Reusable Home Manager module.
        homeModules.bash= { pkgs, ... }: {
          programs.bash = {
            enable = true;
            shellAliases = {
              ll = &quot;ls -l&quot;;
            };
          };
          home.packages = [ pkgs.hello ];
        };

        # Concrete Home Manager configuration.
        homeConfigurations.alice = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
          pkgs = import nixpkgs { system = &quot;x86_64-linux&quot;; };
          modules = [
            inputs.self.homeModules.bash
            {
              home.username = &quot;alice&quot;;
              home.homeDirectory = &quot;/home/alice&quot;;
              home.stateVersion = &quot;25.11&quot;;
            }
          ];
        };
      };
      # See flake.parts for more features, such as `perSystem`
    };
}
</code></pre><p>The flake module defines the <code class="literal">flake.homeModules</code> and <code class="literal">flake.homeConfigurations</code>
options, allowing them to be properly merged if they are defined in multiple
modules.</p><p>If you are only defining <code class="literal">homeModules</code> and/or <code class="literal">homeConfigurations</code> once in a
single module, flake-parts should work fine without importing
<code class="literal">flakeModules.home-manager</code>.</p>
</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-writing-modules" class="title" >Writing Home Manager Modules   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>The module system in Home Manager is based entirely on the NixOS module
system so we will here only highlight aspects that are specific for Home
Manager. For information about the module system as such please refer to
the <a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/nixos/manual/index.html#sec-writing-modules"  target="_top">Writing NixOS
Modules</a>
chapter of the NixOS manual.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-option-types">Option Types</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-option-types" class="title" style="clear: both">Option Types   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Overall the basic option types are the same in Home Manager as NixOS. A
few Home Manager options, however, make use of custom types that are
worth describing in more detail. These are the option types <code class="literal">dagOf</code> and
<code class="literal">gvariant</code> that are used, for example, by
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.ssh.matchBlocks"  >programs.ssh.matchBlocks</a> and <a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-dconf.settings"  >dconf.settings</a>.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl class="variablelist"><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag"></span><code class="literal">hm.types.dagOf</code></span></dt><dd><p>Options of this type have attribute sets as values where each member
is a node in a <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Directed_acyclic_graph&amp;oldid=939656095"  target="_top">directed acyclic
graph</a>
(DAG). This allows the attribute set entries to express dependency
relations among themselves. This can, for example, be used to
control the order of match blocks in a OpenSSH client configuration
or the order of activation script blocks in
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-home.activation"  >home.activation</a>.</p><p>A number of functions are provided to create DAG nodes. The
functions are shown below with examples using an option <code class="literal">foo.bar</code> of
type <code class="literal">hm.types.dagOf types.int</code>.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl class="variablelist"><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entryAnywhere"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entryAnywhere (value: T) : DagEntry&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Indicates that <code class="literal">value</code> can be placed anywhere within the DAG.
This is also the default for plain attribute set entries, that
is</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  a = hm.dag.entryAnywhere 0;
}
</code></pre><p>and</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  a = 0;
}
</code></pre><p>are equivalent.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entryAfter"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entryAfter (afters: list string) (value: T) : DagEntry&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Indicates that <code class="literal">value</code> must be placed <span class="emphasis"><em>after</em></span> each of the
attribute names in the given list. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  a = 0;
  b = hm.dag.entryAfter [ &quot;a&quot; ] 1;
}
</code></pre><p>would place <code class="literal">b</code> after <code class="literal">a</code> in the graph.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entryBefore"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entryBefore (befores: list string) (value: T) : DagEntry&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Indicates that <code class="literal">value</code> must be placed <span class="emphasis"><em>before</em></span> each of the
attribute names in the given list. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  b = hm.dag.entryBefore [ &quot;a&quot; ] 1;
  a = 0;
}
</code></pre><p>would place <code class="literal">b</code> before <code class="literal">a</code> in the graph.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entryBetween"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entryBetween (befores: list string) (afters: list string) (value: T) : DagEntry&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Indicates that <code class="literal">value</code> must be placed <span class="emphasis"><em>before</em></span> the attribute
names in the first list and <span class="emphasis"><em>after</em></span> the attribute names in the
second list. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  a = 0;
  c = hm.dag.entryBetween [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ &quot;a&quot; ] 2;
  b = 1;
}
</code></pre><p>would place <code class="literal">c</code> before <code class="literal">b</code> and after <code class="literal">a</code> in the graph.</p></dd></dl></div><p>There are also a set of functions that generate a DAG from a list.
These are convenient when you just want to have a linear list of DAG
entries, without having to manually enter the relationship between
each entry. Each of these functions take a <code class="literal">tag</code> as argument and the
DAG entries will be named <code class="literal">${tag}-${index}</code>.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl class="variablelist"><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entriesAnywhere"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entriesAnywhere (tag: string) (values: [T]) : Dag&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Creates a DAG with the given values with each entry labeled
using the given tag. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = hm.dag.entriesAnywhere &quot;a&quot; [ 0 1 ];
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  a-0 = 0;
  a-1 = hm.dag.entryAfter [ &quot;a-0&quot; ] 1;
}
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entriesAfter"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entriesAfter (tag: string) (afters: list string) (values: [T]) : Dag&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Creates a DAG with the given values with each entry labeled
using the given tag. The list of values are placed are placed
<span class="emphasis"><em>after</em></span> each of the attribute names in <code class="literal">afters</code>. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar =
  { b = 0; }
  // hm.dag.entriesAfter &quot;a&quot; [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ 1 2 ];
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  b = 0;
  a-0 = hm.dag.entryAfter [ &quot;b&quot; ] 1;
  a-1 = hm.dag.entryAfter [ &quot;a-0&quot; ] 2;
}
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entriesBefore"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entriesBefore (tag: string) (befores: list string) (values: [T]) : Dag&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Creates a DAG with the given values with each entry labeled
using the given tag. The list of values are placed <span class="emphasis"><em>before</em></span> each
of the attribute names in <code class="literal">befores</code>. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar =
  { b = 0; }
  // hm.dag.entriesBefore &quot;a&quot; [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ 1 2 ];
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  b = 0;
  a-0 = 1;
  a-1 = hm.dag.entryBetween [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ &quot;a-0&quot; ] 2;
}
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-dag-entriesBetween"></span><code class="literal">hm.dag.entriesBetween (tag: string) (befores: list string) (afters: list string) (values: [T]) : Dag&lt;T&gt;</code></span></dt><dd><p>Creates a DAG with the given values with each entry labeled
using the given tag. The list of values are placed <span class="emphasis"><em>before</em></span> each
of the attribute names in <code class="literal">befores</code> and <span class="emphasis"><em>after</em></span> each of the
attribute names in <code class="literal">afters</code>. For example</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar =
  { b = 0; c = 3; }
  // hm.dag.entriesBetween &quot;a&quot; [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ &quot;c&quot; ] [ 1 2 ];
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = {
  b = 0;
  c = 3;
  a-0 = hm.dag.entryAfter [ &quot;c&quot; ] 1;
  a-1 = hm.dag.entryBetween [ &quot;b&quot; ] [ &quot;a-0&quot; ] 2;
}
</code></pre></dd></dl></div></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant"></span><code class="literal">hm.types.gvariant</code></span></dt><dd><p>This type is useful for options representing
<a class="link" href="https://docs.gtk.org/glib/struct.Variant.html#description"  target="_top">GVariant</a>
values. The type accepts all primitive GVariant types as well as
arrays, tuples, “maybe” types, and dictionaries.</p><p>Some Nix values are automatically coerced to matching GVariant value
but the GVariant model is richer so you may need to use one of the
provided constructor functions. Examples assume an option <code class="literal">foo.bar</code>
of type <code class="literal">hm.types.gvariant</code>.</p><div class="variablelist"><dl class="variablelist"><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkBoolean"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkBoolean (v: bool)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">boolean</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">b</code>). Note, Nix booleans are automatically coerced
using this function. That is,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = hm.gvariant.mkBoolean true;
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = true;
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkString"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkString (v: string)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">string</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">s</code>). Note, Nix strings are automatically coerced
using this function. That is,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = hm.gvariant.mkString &quot;a string&quot;;
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = &quot;a string&quot;;
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkObjectpath"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkObjectpath (v: string)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">objectpath</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">o</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkUchar"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkUchar (v: string)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">uchar</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">y</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkInt16"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkInt16 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">int16</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">n</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkUint16"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkUint16 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">uint16</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">q</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkInt32"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkInt32 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">int32</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">i</code>). Note, Nix integers are automatically coerced
using this function. That is,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = hm.gvariant.mkInt32 7;
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = 7;
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkUint32"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkUint32 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">uint32</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">u</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkInt64"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkInt64 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">int64</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">x</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkUint64"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkUint64 (v: int)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">uint64</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">t</code>).</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkDouble"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkDouble (v: double)</code></span></dt><dd><p>Takes a Nix value <code class="literal">v</code> to a GVariant <code class="literal">double</code> value (GVariant
format string <code class="literal">d</code>). Note, Nix floats are automatically coerced
using this function. That is,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = hm.gvariant.mkDouble 3.14;
</code></pre><p>is equivalent to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">foo.bar = 3.14;
</code></pre></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkArray"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkArray type elements</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant array containing the given list of elements,
where each element is a GVariant value of the given type
(GVariant format string <code class="literal">a${type}</code>). The <code class="literal">type</code> value can be
constructed using</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.string</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">s</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.boolean</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">b</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.uchar</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">y</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.int16</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">n</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.uint16</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">q</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.int32</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">i</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.uint32</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">u</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.int64</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">x</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.uint64</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">t</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.double</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">d</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.variant</code> (GVariant format string <code class="literal">v</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.arrayOf type</code> (GVariant format string
<code class="literal">a${type}</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.maybeOf type</code> (GVariant format string
<code class="literal">m${type}</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.tupleOf types</code> (GVariant format string
<code class="literal">(${lib.concatStrings types})</code>)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.type.dictionaryEntryOf [keyType valueType]</code>
(GVariant format string <code class="literal">{${keyType}${valueType}}</code>)</p></li></ul></div><p>where <code class="literal">type</code> and <code class="literal">types</code> are themselves a type and list of
types, respectively.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkEmptyArray"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkEmptyArray type</code></span></dt><dd><p>An alias of
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-option-types-gvariant-mkArray"  ><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkArray type []</code></a>.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkNothing"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkNothing type</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant maybe value (GVariant format string
<code class="literal">m${type}</code>) whose (non-existent) element is of the given type.
The <code class="literal">type</code> value is constructed as described for the
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-option-types-gvariant-mkArray"  ><code class="literal">mkArray</code></a> function above.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkJust"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkJust element</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant maybe value (GVariant format string
<code class="literal">m${element.type}</code>) containing the given GVariant element.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkTuple"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkTuple elements</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant tuple containing the given list of elements,
where each element is a GVariant value.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkVariant"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkVariant element</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant variant (GVariant format string <code class="literal">v</code>) which
contains the value of a GVariant element.</p></dd><dt><span class="term"><span id="sec-option-types-gvariant-mkDictionaryEntry"></span><code class="literal">hm.gvariant.mkDictionaryEntry [key value]</code></span></dt><dd><p>Builds a GVariant dictionary entry containing the given list of
elements (GVariant format string <code class="literal">{${key.type}${value.type}}</code>),
where each element is a GVariant value.</p></dd></dl></div></dd></dl></div>
</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-contributing" class="title" >Contributing   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Contributions to Home Manager are very welcome. To make the process as
smooth as possible for both you and the Home Manager maintainers we
provide some guidelines that we ask you to follow. See <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-contrib-getting-started" title="Getting started" >Getting
started</a> for information on how to set up
a suitable development environment and <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines" title="Guidelines" >Guidelines</a> for
the actual guidelines.</p><p>This text is mainly directed at those who would like to make code
contributions to Home Manager. If you just want to report a bug then
first look among the already <a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/issues"  target="_top">open
issues</a>, if you
find one matching yours then feel free to comment on it to add any
additional information you may have. If no matching issue exists then go
to the <a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/issues/new"  target="_top">new
issue</a> page
and write a description of your problem. Include as much information as
you can, ideally also include relevant excerpts from your Home Manager
configuration.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-contrib-getting-started">Getting started</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines">Guidelines</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-news">News</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-tests">Tests</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-contrib-getting-started" class="title" style="clear: both">Getting started   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>If you have not previously forked Home Manager then you need to do that
first. Have a look at GitHub’s <a class="link" href="https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/"  target="_top">Fork a
repo</a> for instructions on
how to do this.</p><p>Once you have a fork of Home Manager you should create a branch starting
at the most recent <code class="literal">master</code> branch. Give your branch a reasonably
descriptive name. Commit your changes to this branch and when you are
happy with the result and it fulfills <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines" title="Guidelines" >Guidelines</a> then
push the branch to GitHub and <a class="link" href="https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/"  target="_top">create a pull
request</a>.</p><p>Assuming your clone is at <code class="literal">$HOME/devel/home-manager</code> then you can make
the <code class="literal">home-manager</code> command use it by either</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>overriding the default path by using the <code class="literal">-I</code> command line option:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager -I home-manager=$HOME/devel/home-manager
</code></pre><p>or, if using <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-flakes-standalone" title="Standalone setup" >flakes</a>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager --override-input home-manager ~/devel/home-manager
</code></pre><p>or</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>changing the default path by ensuring your configuration includes</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">programs.home-manager.enable = true;
programs.home-manager.path = &quot;$HOME/devel/home-manager&quot;;
</code></pre><p>and running <code class="literal">home-manager switch</code> to activate the change.
Afterwards, <code class="literal">home-manager build</code> and <code class="literal">home-manager switch</code> will use
your cloned repository.</p></li></ol></div><p>The first option is good if you only temporarily want to use your clone.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-guidelines" class="title" style="clear: both">Guidelines   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-back-compat">Maintain backward compatibility</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-forward-compat">Keep forward compatibility in mind</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-valuable-options">Add only valuable options</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-add-tests">Add relevant tests</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-module-maintainer">Add relevant documentation</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-module-auto-importing">Module Auto-importing</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_add_yourself_as_a_module_maintainer">Add yourself as a module maintainer</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-code-style">Format your code</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-commit-message-style">Format your commit messages</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-news-style">Format your news entries</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-conditional-modules">Use conditional modules and news</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-licensing">Mind the license</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-commit-style">Commits</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#ex-commit-message">Example commit</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-code-style">Code Style</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>If your contribution satisfy the following rules then there is a good
chance it will be merged without too much trouble. The rules are
enforced by the Home Manager maintainers and to a lesser extent the Home
Manager CI system.</p><p>If you are uncertain how these rules affect the change you would like to
make then feel free to start a discussion in the
<a class="link" href="https://webchat.oftc.net/?channels=home-manager"  target="_top">#home-manager</a> IRC
channel, ideally before you start developing.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-back-compat" class="title" >Maintain backward compatibility   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Your contribution should not cause another user’s existing configuration
to break unless there is a very good reason and the change should be
announced to the user through an
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/index.html#sec-assertions"  target="_top">assertion</a>
or similar.</p><p>Remember that Home Manager is used in many different environments and
you should consider how your change may effect others. For example,</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>Does your change work for people that do not use NixOS? Consider
other GNU/Linux distributions and macOS.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Does your change work for people whose configuration is built on one
system and deployed on another system?</p></li></ul></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-forward-compat" class="title" >Keep forward compatibility in mind   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The master branch of Home Manager tracks the unstable channel of
Nixpkgs, which may update package versions at any time. It is therefore
important to consider how a package update may affect your code and try
to reduce the risk of breakage.</p><p>The most effective way to reduce this risk is to follow the advice in
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-valuable-options" title="Add only valuable options" >Add only valuable options</a>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-valuable-options" class="title" >Add only valuable options   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>When creating a new module it is tempting to include every option
supported by the software. This is <span class="emphasis"><em>strongly</em></span> discouraged. Providing
many options increases maintenance burden and risk of breakage
considerably. This is why only the most <a class="link" href="https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-config-option.md#valuable-options"  target="_top">important software
options</a>
should be modeled explicitly. Less important options should be
expressible through an <code class="literal">extraConfig</code> escape hatch.</p><p>A good rule of thumb for the first implementation of a module is to only
add explicit options for those settings that absolutely must be set for
the software to function correctly. It follows that a module for
software that provides sensible default values for all settings would
require no explicit options at all.</p><p>If the software uses a structured configuration format like a JSON,
YAML, INI, TOML, or even a plain list of key/value pairs then consider
using a <code class="literal">settings</code> option as described in <a class="link" href="https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-config-option.md"  target="_top">Nix RFC
42</a>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-add-tests" class="title" >Add relevant tests   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>If at all possible, make sure to add new tests and expand existing tests
so that your change will keep working in the future. See
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-tests" title="Tests" >Tests</a> for more information about the Home Manager test
suite.</p><p>All contributed code <span class="emphasis"><em>must</em></span> pass the test suite.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-module-maintainer" class="title" >Add relevant documentation   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Many code changes require changing the documentation as well. The
documentation is written in
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable/#sec-contributing-markup"  target="_top">Nixpkgs-flavoured Markdown</a>.
All text is hosted in Home Manager’s Git repository.</p><p>The HTML version of the manual containing both the module option
descriptions and the documentation of Home Manager can be generated and
opened by typing the following in a shell within a clone of the Home
Manager Git repository:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build -A docs.html
$ xdg-open ./result/share/doc/home-manager/index.xhtml
</code></pre><p>When you have made changes to a module, it is a good idea to check that
the man page version of the module options looks good:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build -A docs.manPages
$ man ./result/share/man/man5/home-configuration.nix.5.gz
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-module-auto-importing" class="title" >Module Auto-importing   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager automatically imports all modules from the <code class="literal">modules/programs/</code> and
<code class="literal">modules/services/</code> directories. This auto-importing behavior follows these
rules:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Nix files</strong></span>: All <code class="literal">.nix</code> files in these directories are automatically
imported</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Directories</strong></span>: All subdirectories are automatically imported (typically
containing a <code class="literal">default.nix</code> file)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="strong"><strong>Exclusions</strong></span>: Files and directories starting with an underscore (<code class="literal">_</code>) are
excluded from auto-importing</p></li></ul></div><p>This allows for flexible module organization:</p><pre><code class="programlisting">modules/programs/
├── git.nix              # Single-file module (imported)
├── firefox/             # Multi-file module (imported)
│   ├── default.nix
│   └── addons.nix
├── _experimental.nix    # Excluded (starts with _)
└── _wip/                # Excluded directory (starts with _)
    └── newfeature.nix
</code></pre><p>When adding a new module, simply place it in the appropriate directory
(<code class="literal">programs/</code> for user programs, <code class="literal">services/</code> for user services) and it will be
automatically discovered and included in the Home Manager module system.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="_add_yourself_as_a_module_maintainer" class="title" >Add yourself as a module maintainer   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Every new module <span class="emphasis"><em>must</em></span> include a named maintainer using the
<code class="literal">meta.maintainers</code> attribute. If you are a user of a module that
currently lacks a maintainer then please consider adopting it.</p><p>If you are present in the nixpkgs maintainer list then you can use that
entry. If you are not then you can add yourself to
<code class="literal">modules/lib/maintainers.nix</code> in the Home Manager project.</p><p>As a maintainer you are expected to respond to issues and
pull-requests associated with your module.</p><p>Maintainers are encouraged to join the IRC or Matrix channel and
participate when they have opportunity.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-code-style" class="title" >Format your code   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Make sure your code is formatted as described in <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-code-style" title="Code Style" >Code
Style</a>. To maintain consistency throughout the project
you are encouraged to browse through existing code and adopt its style
also in new code.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-commit-message-style" class="title" >Format your commit messages   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Similar to <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-guidelines-code-style" title="Format your code" >Format your code</a> we encourage a
consistent commit message format as described in
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-commit-style" title="Commits" >Commits</a>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-news-style" class="title" >Format your news entries   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>If your contribution includes a change that should be communicated to
users of Home Manager then you can add a news entry. The entry must be
formatted as described in <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-news" title="News" >News</a>.</p><p>When new modules are added a news entry should be included.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-conditional-modules" class="title" >Use conditional modules and news   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager includes a number of modules that are only usable on some
of the supported platforms. The most common example of platform specific
modules are those that define systemd user services, which only works on
Linux systems.</p><p>If you add a module that is platform specific then make sure to include
a condition in the <code class="literal">loadModule</code> function call. This will make the module
accessible only on systems where the condition evaluates to <code class="literal">true</code>.</p><p>Similarly, if you are adding a news entry then it should be shown only
to users that may find it relevant, see <a class="link" href="index.xhtml#sec-news" title="News" >News</a> for a
description of conditional news.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-guidelines-licensing" class="title" >Mind the license   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The Home Manager project is covered by the MIT license and we can only
accept contributions that fall under this license, or are licensed in a
compatible way. When you contribute self written code and documentation
it is assumed that you are doing so under the MIT license.</p><p>A potential gotcha with respect to licensing are option descriptions.
Often it is convenient to copy from the upstream software documentation.
When this is done it is important to verify that the license of the
upstream documentation allows redistribution under the terms of the MIT
license.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-commit-style" class="title" >Commits   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The commits in your pull request should be reasonably self-contained,
that is, each commit should make sense in isolation. In particular, you
will be asked to amend any commit that introduces syntax errors or
similar problems even if they are fixed in a later commit.</p><p>The commit messages should follow the <a class="link" href="https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules"  target="_top">seven
rules</a>, except for
&quot;Capitalize the subject line&quot;. We also ask you to include the affected
code component or module in the first line. That is, a commit message
should follow the template</p><pre><code class="programlisting">{component}: {description}

{long description}
</code></pre><p>where <code class="literal">{component}</code> refers to the code component (or module) your change
affects, <code class="literal">{description}</code> is a very brief description of your change, and
<code class="literal">{long description}</code> is an optional clarifying description. As a rare
exception, if there is no clear component, or your change affects many
components, then the <code class="literal">{component}</code> part is optional. See
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#ex-commit-message" title="Example commit" >example_title</a> for a commit message that fulfills
these requirements.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="ex-commit-message" class="title" >Example commit   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The commit
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/commit/69f8e47e9e74c8d3d060ca22e18246b7f7d988ef"  target="_top">69f8e47e9e74c8d3d060ca22e18246b7f7d988ef</a>
contains the commit message</p><pre><code class="programlisting">
    starship: allow running in Emacs if vterm is used

    The vterm buffer is backed by libvterm and can handle Starship prompts
    without issues.
</code></pre><p>which ticks all the boxes necessary to be accepted in Home Manager.</p><p>Finally, when adding a new module, say <code class="literal">programs/foo.nix</code>, we use the
fixed commit format <code class="literal">foo: add module</code>. You can, of course, still include
a long description if you wish.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-code-style" class="title" >Code Style   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>The code in Home Manager is formatted by the <a class="link" href="https://treefmt.com"  target="_top">treefmt</a> tool
and the formatting is checked in the pull request tests. Run <code class="literal">nix fmt</code> or
<code class="literal">treefmt</code> (with required formatters which can be found in <code class="literal">treefmt.toml</code> in your
<code class="literal">$PATH</code>) inside the project repository before submitting your pull request.</p><p>Keep lines at a reasonable width, ideally 80 characters or less. This
also applies to string literals.</p><p>We prefer <code class="literal">lowerCamelCase</code> for variable and attribute names with the
accepted exception of variables directly referencing packages in Nixpkgs
which use a hyphenated style. For example, the Home Manager option
<code class="literal">services.gpg-agent.enableSshSupport</code> references the <code class="literal">gpg-agent</code> package
in Nixpkgs.</p>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-news" class="title" style="clear: both">News   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager includes a system for presenting news to the user. When
making a change you, therefore, have the option to also include an
associated news entry. In general, a news entry should only be added for
truly noteworthy news. For example, a bug fix or new option does
generally not need a news entry.</p><p>If you do have a change worthy of a news entry then please add one in
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/blob/master/modules/misc/news.nix"  target="_top"><code class="literal">news.nix</code></a>
but you should follow some basic guidelines:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p>Use the included news entry generator to create a news entry file:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix run .#create-news-entry
</code></pre><p>Alternatively, you can directly use the script:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-shell -A dev --run modules/misc/news/create-news-entry.sh
</code></pre><p>This will create a new file inside the <code class="literal">modules/misc/news</code> directory
with some placeholder information that you can edit.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The entry condition should be as specific as possible. For example,
if you are changing or deprecating a specific option then you could
restrict the news to those users who actually use this option.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Wrap the news message so that it will fit in the typical terminal,
that is, at most 80 characters wide. Ideally a bit less.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Unlike commit messages, news will be read without any connection to
the Home Manager source code. It is therefore important to make the
message understandable in isolation and to those who do not have
knowledge of the Home Manager internals. To this end it should be
written in more descriptive, prose like way.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you refer to an option then write its full attribute path. That
is, instead of writing</p><pre><code class="programlisting">The option &#x27;foo&#x27; has been deprecated, please use &#x27;bar&#x27; instead.
</code></pre><p>it should read</p><pre><code class="programlisting">The option &#x27;services.myservice.foo&#x27; has been deprecated, please
use &#x27;services.myservice.bar&#x27; instead.
</code></pre></li><li class="listitem"><p>A new module, say <code class="literal">foo.nix</code>, should always include a news entry that
has a message along the lines of</p><pre><code class="programlisting">A new module is available: &#x27;services.foo&#x27;.
</code></pre><p>If the module is platform specific, e.g., a service module using
systemd, then a condition like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">condition = hostPlatform.isLinux;
</code></pre><p>should be added. If you contribute a module then you don’t need to
add this entry, the merger will create an entry for you.</p></li></ul></div>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-tests" class="title" style="clear: both">Tests   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="toc"> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-tests-basic">Writing Basic Tests</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-tests-command">Using the tests command</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-tests-manual">Manual test commands</a> </span></dt> </dl></div><p>Home Manager includes a basic test suite and it is highly recommended to
include at least one test when adding a module. Tests are typically in
the form of &quot;golden tests&quot; where, for example, a generated
configuration file is compared to a known correct file.</p><p>It is relatively easy to create tests by modeling the existing tests,
found in the <code class="literal">tests</code> project directory.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-tests-basic" class="title" >Writing Basic Tests   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager tests use the <span class="strong"><strong>NMT</strong></span> framework, which provides
a set of assertion functions to verify that modules generate the expected files
and configurations. Tests are written as Nix expressions that define both the
Home Manager configuration and the test assertions.</p><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-tests-structure" class="title" >Test Structure   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>A basic test file structure looks like:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  # Home Manager configuration
  programs.myprogram = {
    enable = true;
    settings = {
      option = &quot;value&quot;;
    };
  };

  # NMT test script with assertions
  nmt.script = &#x27;&#x27;
    assertFileExists &quot;home-files/.config/myprogram/config.toml&quot;
    assertFileContent &quot;home-files/.config/myprogram/config.toml&quot; ${./expected-config.toml}
  &#x27;&#x27;;
}
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-tests-organization" class="title" >Test Organization   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>Tests are organized in the <code class="literal">tests</code> directory structure:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">tests/modules/programs/myprogram/default.nix</code> - Lists all test cases for the module</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">tests/modules/programs/myprogram/basic-configuration.nix</code> - A basic test case</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">tests/modules/programs/myprogram/expected-config.toml</code> - Expected output file</p></li></ul></div><p>The <code class="literal">default.nix</code> file should list all test cases:</p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  myprogram-basic-configuration = ./basic-configuration.nix;
  myprogram-empty-settings = ./empty-settings.nix;
}
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-tests-assertions" class="title" >Common NMT Assertions   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>NMT provides several assertion functions:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist compact" style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">assertFileExists &quot;path&quot;</code> - Verify a file was created</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">assertPathNotExists &quot;path&quot;</code> - Verify a file was NOT created</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">assertFileContent &quot;path&quot; expected-file</code> - Compare file contents</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">assertFileRegex &quot;path&quot; &quot;regex&quot;</code> - Check file matches regex</p></li></ul></div><p>For a full reference to the functions available in test scripts, you can look at NMT’s
<a class="link" href="https://git.sr.ht/~rycee/nmt/tree/master/item/bash-lib"  target="_top">bash-lib</a>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-tests-examples" class="title" >Practical Examples   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>Here are some real-world examples of common test patterns:</p><p><span class="strong"><strong>Testing that a configuration file is generated:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  programs.alacritty = {
    enable = true;
    settings.font.size = 12;
  };

  nmt.script = &#x27;&#x27;
    assertFileExists &quot;home-files/.config/alacritty/alacritty.yml&quot;
    assertFileContains &quot;home-files/.config/alacritty/alacritty.yml&quot; &quot;size: 12&quot;
  &#x27;&#x27;;
}
</code></pre><p><span class="strong"><strong>Testing that no files are created when disabled:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  programs.alacritty.enable = false;

  nmt.script = &#x27;&#x27;
    assertPathNotExists &quot;home-files/.config/alacritty&quot;
  &#x27;&#x27;;
}
</code></pre><p><span class="strong"><strong>Testing exact file content against expected output:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  programs.fastfetch = {
    enable = true;
    settings.display.color = &quot;blue&quot;;
  };

  nmt.script =
    let
      configFile = &quot;home-files/.config/fastfetch/config.jsonc&quot;;
    in
    &#x27;&#x27;
      assertFileExists &quot;${configFile}&quot;
      assertFileContent &quot;${configFile}&quot; ${./expected-config.jsonc}
    &#x27;&#x27;;
}
</code></pre><p><span class="strong"><strong>Testing multiple conditions in one test:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{
  programs.myprogram = {
    enable = true;
    configFile = &quot;custom.conf&quot;;
    extraConfig = &quot;debug = true&quot;;
  };

  nmt.script = &#x27;&#x27;
    assertFileExists &quot;home-files/.config/myprogram/custom.conf&quot;
    assertFileRegex &quot;home-files/.config/myprogram/custom.conf&quot; &quot;debug = true&quot;
    assertFileRegex &quot;home-files/.config/myprogram/custom.conf&quot; &quot;^# Generated by Home Manager&quot;
  &#x27;&#x27;;
}
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h4 id="sec-tests-platform-specific" class="title" >Platform-Specific Tests   </h4>  </div> </div></div><p>When a module is platform-specific (Linux-only or Darwin-only), the test’s <code class="literal">default.nix</code>
file should use <code class="literal">lib.optionalAttrs</code> to conditionally expose tests based on the platform.
This prevents evaluation errors on unsupported platforms during the test suite runs.</p><p><span class="strong"><strong>Linux-only module tests:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ lib, pkgs, ... }:

lib.optionalAttrs pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.isLinux {
  rofi-valid-config = ./valid-config.nix;
  rofi-custom-theme = ./custom-theme.nix;
}
</code></pre><p><span class="strong"><strong>Darwin-only module tests:</strong></span></p><pre><code class="programlisting nix">{ lib, pkgs, ... }:

lib.optionalAttrs pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.isDarwin {
  sketchybar-basic = ./basic-configuration.nix;
  sketchybar-lua-config = ./lua-config.nix;
}
</code></pre><p>For cross-platform modules that have packages which need to be stubbed on Darwin,
add the package names to <code class="literal">tests/darwinScrublist.nix</code> to prevent build failures
during cross-platform test runs.</p>
</div>

</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-tests-command" class="title" >Using the tests command   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager provides a convenient <code class="literal">tests</code> command for discovering and running tests:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell"># List all available tests
$ nix run .#tests -- -l

# List tests matching a pattern
$ nix run .#tests -- -l alacritty

# Run all tests matching a pattern
$ nix run .#tests -- alacritty

# Run a specific test
$ nix run .#tests -- test-alacritty-empty-settings

# Run integration tests
$ nix run .#tests -- -t -l

# Interactive test selection (requires fzf)
$ python3 tests/tests.py -i

# Pass additional nix build flags
$ nix run .#tests -- alacritty -- --verbose
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h3 id="sec-tests-manual" class="title" >Manual test commands   </h3>  </div> </div></div><p>For advanced usage or CI environments, you can also run tests manually using nix build commands.</p><p>The full Home Manager test suite can be run by executing</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build --pure --option allow-import-from-derivation false tests -A build.all
</code></pre><p>in the project root. List all test cases through</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build --pure tests --option allow-import-from-derivation false -A list
</code></pre><p>and run an individual test, for example <code class="literal">alacritty-empty-settings</code>,
through</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build --pure tests --option allow-import-from-derivation false -A build.alacritty-empty-settings
</code></pre><p>However, those invocations will impurely source the system’s Nixpkgs,
and may cause failures. To run against the Nixpkgs from the <code class="literal">flake.lock</code> file,
use instead e.g.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix build --option allow-import-from-derivation false .#test-all
</code></pre><p>or</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix build --option allow-import-from-derivation false .#test-alacritty-empty-settings
</code></pre><p>Some tests may be marked with <code class="literal">enableLegacyIfd</code>, those may be run by run with e.g.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-build --pure tests --arg enableLegacyIfd true -A build.mytest
</code></pre>
</div>

</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-internals" class="title" >Home Manager Internals   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>This chapter collects some documentation about the internal workings
of Home Manager. The information here is mostly aimed to developers of
Home Manager and those who do non-trivial integration with Home
Manager.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-internals-activation">Activation</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-internals-activation" class="title" style="clear: both">Activation   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Activating a Home Manager configuration ensures that the built
configuration is introduced into the user’s environment. The
activation is performed by a suitably named script
<span class="command"><strong>activate</strong></span>. This script is generated as part of the
configuration build and is placed in the root of the build output.</p><p>The activation script is implemented in the Bash language and consists
of initialization code followed by a number of <span class="emphasis"><em>activation script
blocks</em></span>. These blocks are specified using the
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-home.activation"  >home.activation</a> option. The blocks may have
dependencies among themselves and the generated activation script will
contain the blocks serialized such that the dependencies are
satisfied. A dependency cycle causes a failure when the configuration
is built.</p><p>Historically, the activation script has been responsible for creating
a new generation of the <code class="literal">home-manager</code> Nix profile. The more modern
way, however, is to let the <span class="emphasis"><em>activation driver</em></span> – that is, the
software calling the activation script – manage the profile. Indeed,
in some cases we may not have a <code class="literal">home-manager</code> profile at all! This is
the case when Home Manager is used as a NixOS or nix-darwin module, in
these cases the system profile will contain references to the
corresponding Home Manager configurations.</p><p>Note, to maintain backwards compatibility, the old activation script
behavior is still the default. To choose the new mode of operation you
have to call the activation script with the command line option
<code class="literal">--driver-version 1</code>. The old behavior is available using
<code class="literal">--driver-version 0</code>, or simply omit it entirely.</p><p>Unfortunately, driver software need to support both modes of operation
for the time being since a user may wish to activate an old generation
that contains an activation script that does not support
<code class="literal">--driver-version</code>. To determine whether support is available, check
the <code class="filename">gen-version</code> file in the configuration build output root.
If the file is missing then the activation script does not support
<code class="literal">--driver-version</code>. If the file exists and contains the integer 1 or
higher, then <code class="literal">--driver-version 1</code> is supported.</p>
</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-3rd-party" class="title" >Third-Party Tools and Extensions   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><p>Here is a collection of tools and extensions that relate to Home
Manager. Note, these are maintained outside the regular Home Manager
flow so quality and support may vary wildly. If you encounter problems
then please raise them in the corresponding project, not as issues in
the Home Manager tracker.</p><p>If you have made something interesting related to Home Manager then you
are encouraged to create a PR that expands this chapter.</p><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#sec-3rd-party-module-collections">Module Collections</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="sec-3rd-party-module-collections" class="title" style="clear: both">Module Collections   </h2>  </div> </div></div><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://github.com/schuelermine/xhmm"  target="_top">xhmm — extra Home Manager
modules</a></p><p>A collection of modules maintained by Anselm Schüler.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://github.com/danth/stylix/"  target="_top">Stylix — System-wide colorscheming and
typography</a></p><p>Configure your applications to get coherent color scheme and font.</p></li></ul></div>
</div>
</div><div class="part"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h1 id="ch-faq" class="title" >Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)   </h1>  </div> </div></div><div class="partintro"><div class="toc"> <p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p> <dl class="toc">  <dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_is_there_a_collision_error_when_switching_generation">Why is there a collision error when switching generation?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_are_the_session_variables_not_set">Why are the session variables not set?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_to_set_up_a_configuration_for_multiple_users_machines">How to set up a configuration for multiple users/machines?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_why_do_i_get_an_error_message_about_literal_ca_desrt_dconf_literal_or_literal_dconf_service_literal">Why do I get an error message about <code class="literal">ca.desrt.dconf</code> or <code class="literal">dconf.service</code>?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_do_i_install_packages_from_nixpkgs_unstable">How do I install packages from Nixpkgs unstable?</a> </span></dt><dt> <span class="section">  <a href="index.xhtml#_how_do_i_change_the_package_used_by_a_module">How do I change the package used by a module?</a> </span></dt> </dl></div></div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_why_is_there_a_collision_error_when_switching_generation" class="title" style="clear: both">Why is there a collision error when switching generation?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager currently installs packages into the user environment,
precisely as if the packages were installed through <code class="literal">nix-env --install</code>.
This means that you will get a collision error if your Home Manager
configuration attempts to install a package that you already have
installed manually, that is, packages that shows up when you run
<code class="literal">nix-env --query</code>.</p><p>For example, imagine you have the <code class="literal">hello</code> package installed in your
environment</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-env --query
hello-2.10
</code></pre><p>and your Home Manager configuration contains</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">home.packages = [ pkgs.hello ];
</code></pre><p>Then attempting to switch to this configuration will result in an error
similar to</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ home-manager switch
these derivations will be built:
  /nix/store/xg69wsnd1rp8xgs9qfsjal017nf0ldhm-home-manager-path.drv
[…]
Activating installPackages
replacing old ‘home-manager-path’
installing ‘home-manager-path’
building path(s) ‘/nix/store/b5c0asjz9f06l52l9812w6k39ifr49jj-user-environment’
Wide character in die at /nix/store/64jc9gd2rkbgdb4yjx3nrgc91bpjj5ky-buildenv.pl line 79.
collision between ‘/nix/store/fmwa4axzghz11cnln5absh31nbhs9lq1-home-manager-path/bin/hello’ and ‘/nix/store/c2wyl8b9p4afivpcz8jplc9kis8rj36d-hello-2.10/bin/hello’; use ‘nix-env --set-flag priority NUMBER PKGNAME’ to change the priority of one of the conflicting packages
builder for ‘/nix/store/b37x3s7pzxbasfqhaca5dqbf3pjjw0ip-user-environment.drv’ failed with exit code 2
error: build of ‘/nix/store/b37x3s7pzxbasfqhaca5dqbf3pjjw0ip-user-environment.drv’ failed
</code></pre><p>The solution is typically to uninstall the package from the environment
using <code class="literal">nix-env --uninstall</code> and reattempt the Home Manager generation
switch.</p><p>You could also opt to uninstall <span class="emphasis"><em>all</em></span> of the packages from your profile
with <code class="literal">nix-env --uninstall &#x27;*&#x27;</code>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_why_are_the_session_variables_not_set" class="title" style="clear: both">Why are the session variables not set?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>Home Manager is only able to set session variables automatically if it
manages your Bash, Z shell, or fish shell configuration. To enable such
management you use <a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.bash.enable"  >programs.bash.enable</a>,
<a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.zsh.enable"  >programs.zsh.enable</a>, or <a class="link" href="options.xhtml#opt-programs.fish.enable"  >programs.fish.enable</a>.</p><p>If you don’t want to let Home Manager manage your shell then you will
have to manually source the
<code class="literal">~/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh</code> file in an appropriate
way. In Bash and Z shell this can be done by adding</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">. &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot;
</code></pre><p>to your <code class="literal">.profile</code> and <code class="literal">.zshrc</code> files, respectively. The
<code class="literal">hm-session-vars.sh</code> file should work in most Bourne-like shells. For
fish shell, it is possible to source it using <a class="link" href="https://github.com/oh-my-fish/plugin-foreign-env"  target="_top">the foreign-env
plugin</a> or using the builtin
<a class="link" href="https://github.com/bouk/babelfish"  target="_top">babelfish</a>-translated variables:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  bash">fenv source &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.sh&quot; &gt; /dev/null
# or
source &quot;$HOME/.nix-profile/etc/profile.d/hm-session-vars.fish&quot;
</code></pre>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_how_to_set_up_a_configuration_for_multiple_users_machines" class="title" style="clear: both">How to set up a configuration for multiple users/machines?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>A typical way to prepare a repository of configurations for multiple
logins and machines is to prepare one &quot;top-level&quot; file for each unique
combination.</p><p>For example, if you have two machines, called &quot;kronos&quot; and &quot;rhea&quot; on
which you want to configure your user &quot;jane&quot; then you could create the
files</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist " style="list-style-type: disc;"><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">kronos-jane.nix</code>,</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">rhea-jane.nix</code>, and</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><code class="literal">common.nix</code></p></li></ul></div><p>in your repository. On the kronos and rhea machines you can then make
<code class="literal">~jane/.config/home-manager/home.nix</code> be a symbolic link to the
corresponding file in your configuration repository.</p><p>The <code class="literal">kronos-jane.nix</code> and <code class="literal">rhea-jane.nix</code> files follow the format</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ ... }:

{
  imports = [ ./common.nix ];

  # Various options that are specific for this machine/user.
}
</code></pre><p>while the <code class="literal">common.nix</code> file contains configuration shared across the two
logins. Of course, instead of just a single <code class="literal">common.nix</code> file you can
have multiple ones, even one per program or service.</p><p>You can get some inspiration from the <a class="link" href="https://www.reddit.com/r/NixOS/comments/9bb9h9/post_your_homemanager_homenix_file/"  target="_top">Post your home-manager home.nix
file!</a>
Reddit thread.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_why_do_i_get_an_error_message_about_literal_ca_desrt_dconf_literal_or_literal_dconf_service_literal" class="title" style="clear: both">Why do I get an error message about <code class="literal">ca.desrt.dconf</code> or <code class="literal">dconf.service</code>?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>You are most likely trying to configure something that uses dconf but
the DBus session is not aware of the dconf service. The full error you
might get is</p><pre><code class="programlisting">error: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name ca.desrt.dconf was not provided by any .service files
</code></pre><p>or</p><pre><code class="programlisting">error: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.systemd1.NoSuchUnit: Unit dconf.service not found.
</code></pre><p>The solution on NixOS is to add</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">programs.dconf.enable = true;
</code></pre><p>to your system configuration.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_how_do_i_install_packages_from_nixpkgs_unstable" class="title" style="clear: both">How do I install packages from Nixpkgs unstable?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>If you are using a stable version of Nixpkgs but would like to install
some particular packages from Nixpkgs unstable – or some other channel
– then you can import the unstable Nixpkgs and refer to its packages
within your configuration.</p><p>With channels, something like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgs, config, ... }:

let
  pkgsUnstable = import &lt;nixpkgs-unstable&gt; {};
in
{
  home.packages = [
    pkgsUnstable.foo
  ];
  # …
}
</code></pre><p>should work provided you have a Nix channel called <code class="literal">nixpkgs-unstable</code>.</p><p>You can add the <code class="literal">nixpkgs-unstable</code> channel by running</p><pre><code class="programlisting  shell">$ nix-channel --add https://nixos.org/channels/nixpkgs-unstable nixpkgs-unstable
$ nix-channel --update
</code></pre><p>With flakes, add another Nixpkgs input and pass its packages to your
Home Manager modules. For example, a standalone Home Manager flake can
define the following. Replace 25.11 with the release branch your
configuration follows.</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = &quot;github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11&quot;;
    nixpkgs-unstable.url = &quot;github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixpkgs-unstable&quot;;
    home-manager.url = &quot;github:nix-community/home-manager/release-25.11&quot;;
  };

  outputs =
    { nixpkgs, nixpkgs-unstable, home-manager, ... }:
    let
      # Replace this with the system of your Home Manager configuration.
      system = &quot;x86_64-linux&quot;;
      pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages.${system};
      pkgsUnstable = nixpkgs-unstable.legacyPackages.${system};
    in
    {
      homeConfigurations.jdoe = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
        inherit pkgs;
        extraSpecialArgs = { inherit pkgsUnstable; };
        modules = [ ./home.nix ];
      };
    };
}
</code></pre><p>and then use the extra argument in <code class="literal">home.nix</code>:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgsUnstable, ... }:

{
  home.packages = [
    pkgsUnstable.foo
  ];
}
</code></pre><p>When Home Manager is used as a NixOS or nix-darwin module, pass the
extra package set with <code class="literal">home-manager.extraSpecialArgs</code> in the system
configuration:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">outputs =
  { nixpkgs, nixpkgs-unstable, home-manager, ... }:
  let
    # Replace this with the system of your NixOS or nix-darwin configuration.
    system = &quot;x86_64-linux&quot;;
  in
  {
    nixosConfigurations.hostname = nixpkgs.lib.nixosSystem {
      inherit system;
      modules = [
        home-manager.nixosModules.home-manager
        ({ config, ... }: {
          home-manager.extraSpecialArgs = {
            pkgsUnstable = import nixpkgs-unstable {
              inherit system;
              config = config.nixpkgs.config;
              overlays = config.nixpkgs.overlays;
            };

            # If you use a stock Nixpkgs configuration, you can use:
            # pkgsUnstable = nixpkgs-unstable.legacyPackages.${system};
          };
        })
      ];
    };
  };
</code></pre><p>The nix-darwin setup is the same pattern with
<code class="literal">darwin.lib.darwinSystem</code> and
<code class="literal">home-manager.darwinModules.home-manager</code>.</p>
</div><div class="section"> <div class="titlepage">  <div>   <div>    <h2 id="_how_do_i_change_the_package_used_by_a_module" class="title" style="clear: both">How do I change the package used by a module?   </h2>  </div> </div></div><p>By default Home Manager will install the package provided by your chosen
<code class="literal">nixpkgs</code> channel but occasionally you might end up needing to change
this package. This can typically be done in two ways.</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist "  type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>If the module provides a <code class="literal">package</code> option, such as
<code class="literal">programs.beets.package</code>, then this is the recommended way to
perform the change. For example,</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">programs.beets.package = pkgs.beets.override { pluginOverrides = { beatport.enable = false; }; };
</code></pre><p>See <a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/nixpkgs-overriding-packages.html"  target="_top">Nix pill 17</a>
for more information on package overrides. Alternatively, if you want
to use the <code class="literal">beets</code> package from Nixpkgs unstable, then a configuration like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgs, config, ... }:

let
  pkgsUnstable = import &lt;nixpkgs-unstable&gt; {};
in
{
  programs.beets.package = pkgsUnstable.beets;

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>should work OK. With flakes, pass the unstable package set as
described in
<a class="link" href="index.xhtml#_how_do_i_install_packages_from_nixpkgs_unstable" title="How do I install packages from Nixpkgs unstable?" >How do I install packages from Nixpkgs unstable?</a>
and then use the extra module argument:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgsUnstable, ... }:

{
  programs.beets.package = pkgsUnstable.beets;

  # …
}
</code></pre></li><li class="listitem"><p>If no <code class="literal">package</code> option is available then you can typically change
the relevant package using an
<a class="link" href="https://nixos.org/nixpkgs/manual/#chap-overlays"  target="_top">overlay</a>.</p><p>For example, if you want to use the <code class="literal">programs.skim</code> module but use
the <code class="literal">skim</code> package from Nixpkgs unstable, then a configuration like</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgs, config, ... }:

let
  pkgsUnstable = import &lt;nixpkgs-unstable&gt; {};
in

{
  programs.skim.enable = true;

  nixpkgs.overlays = [
    (_final: _prev: {
      skim = pkgsUnstable.skim;
    })
  ];

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>should work OK.</p><p>The same Home Manager overlay works in a flake-based standalone
configuration if <code class="literal">pkgsUnstable</code> is passed to the Home Manager
module:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgsUnstable, ... }:

{
  programs.skim.enable = true;

  nixpkgs.overlays = [
    (_final: _prev: {
      skim = pkgsUnstable.skim;
    })
  ];

  # …
}
</code></pre><p>This also works when Home Manager is used as a NixOS or nix-darwin
module without <code class="literal">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true</code>. If
<code class="literal">home-manager.useGlobalPkgs = true</code> is enabled, Home Manager uses
the system package set and the <code class="literal">nixpkgs.*</code> options inside Home
Manager are disabled. In that case, put the overlay in the system
configuration instead, for example:</p><pre><code class="programlisting  nix">{ pkgsUnstable, ... }:

{
  nixpkgs.overlays = [
    (_final: _prev: {
      skim = pkgsUnstable.skim;
    })
  ];
}
</code></pre><p>In a flake-based NixOS or nix-darwin configuration, pass
<code class="literal">pkgsUnstable</code> to <code class="literal">nixosSystem</code> or <code class="literal">darwinSystem</code> with
<code class="literal">specialArgs</code>.</p></li></ol></div>
</div>
</div>
 </div>
  <div class="navfooter">
   <hr />
   <table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer">
    <tr>
    <td width="40%" align="left">&nbsp;</td>
    <td width="20%" align="center">&nbsp;</td>
    <td width="40%" align="right">&nbsp;<a accesskey="n" href="options.xhtml">Next</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">&nbsp;</td>
     <td width="20%" align="center">&nbsp;</td>
     <td width="40%" align="right" valign="top">&nbsp;Appendix A. Home Manager Configuration Options</td>
    </tr>
   </table>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>