# Release 24.11 {#sec-release-24.11}

This is the current unstable branch and the information in this section
is therefore not final.

## Highlights {#sec-release-24.11-highlights}

This release has the following notable changes:

- The `home-manager` Nix profile update that the Home Manager
  activation script has previously performed is now deprecated. The
  profile update is instead the responsibility of the software calling
  the activation script, such as the `home-manager` tool..

  The legacy behavior is the default for backwards compatibility but
  may be emit a deprecation warning in the future, for eventual
  removal. If you have developed tooling that directly call the
  generated activation script, then you are encouraged to adapt to the
  new behavior. See [Activation](#sec-internals-activation) for
  details on how to call the activation script.

- The `home-manager switch` command now offers a `--rollback` option.
  When given, the switch performs a rollback to the Home Manager
  generation prior to the current before activating. While it was
  previously possible to accomplish this by manually activating an old
  generation, it always created a new profile generation. The new
  behavior mirrors the behavior of `nixos-rebuild switch --rollback`.
  See the [Rollbacks](#sec-usage-rollbacks) section for more.

- When using Home Manager as a NixOS or nix-darwin module we
  previously created an unnecessary `home-manager` per-user "shadow
  profile" for the user. This no longer happens.

## State Version Changes {#sec-release-24.11-state-version-changes}

The state version in this release includes the changes below. These
changes are only active if the `home.stateVersion` option is set to
\"24.11\" or later.

- No changes.
