# Release 21.11 {#sec-release-21.11}

The 21.11 release branch became the stable branch in November, 2021.

## Highlights {#sec-release-21.11-highlights}

This release has the following notable changes:

-   All Home Manager modules are now loaded on all platforms. With this
    change you will get a more descriptive error message if you attempt
    to enable a module that is incompatible with the host platform.

    Previously, modules that were platform specific would only be loaded
    on that particular platform. For example, a module defining a
    [systemd](https://systemd.io/) service would only be loaded when the
    host platform was Linux. This reduced evaluation times, simplified
    the generated documentation, and made it impossible to accidentally
    use modules that do not support the host platform.

    While the above benefits are quite nice, avoiding module loads also
    brings a few problems. For example, the [public
    documentation](https://nix-community.github.io/home-manager/) will
    only show the options available for Linux hosts and the
    documentation cannot make references to options within modules that
    are unavailable on some hosts. Finally, users who wish to use the
    same configuration file for different platforms cannot do so, even
    if the platform incompatible options are unused.

    Ultimately, the benefits of loading all modules won and the behavior
    has now changed. For associated discussion see
    [issue #1906](https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager/issues/1906).

-   Rofi version 1.7.0 removed many options that were used by the module
    and replaced them with custom themes, which are more flexible and
    powerful.

    You can replicate your old configuration by moving those options to
    [programs.rofi.theme](#opt-programs.rofi.theme). Keep in mind that the syntax is
    different so you may need to do some changes.

-   Taskwarrior version 2.6.0 respects XDG Specification for the config
    file now. Option [programs.taskwarrior.config](#opt-programs.taskwarrior.config) and friends
    now generate the config file at `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/task/taskrc`
    instead of `~/.taskrc`.

## State Version Changes {#sec-release-21.11-state-version-changes}

The state version in this release includes the changes below. These
changes are only active if the `home.stateVersion` option is set to
\"21.11\" or later.

-   The [home.keyboard](#opt-home.keyboard) option now defaults to `null`, meaning
    that Home Manager won't do any keyboard layout management. For
    example, `setxkbmap` won't be run in X sessions.

-   The [programs.pet.settings](#opt-programs.pet.settings) option no longer place its
    value inside a `General` attribute. For example,

    ``` nix
    programs.pet.settings.editor = "nvim";
    ```

    becomes

    ``` nix
    programs.pet.settings.General.editor = "nvim";
    ```

-   The [programs.waybar.settings](#opt-programs.waybar.settings) option now allows defining
    modules directly under [programs.waybar.settings](#opt-programs.waybar.settings). For
    example,

    ``` nix
    programs.waybar.settings.modules."custom/my-module" = { };
    ```

    becomes

    ``` nix
    programs.waybar.settings."custom/my-module" = { };
    ```
