# Release 25.05 {#sec-release-25.05}

This is the current unstable branch and the information in this
section is therefore not final.

## Highlights {#sec-release-25.05-highlights}

This release has the following notable changes:

- The [](#opt-systemd.user.startServices) option now defaults to
  `true`, meaning that services will automatically be restarted as
  needed when activating a configuration.

  Further, the `"legacy"` alternative has been removed and will now
  result in an evaluation error if used.

  The `"suggest"` alternative will remain for a while longer but may
  also be deprecated for removal in the future.

- The Home Manager test suite has been removed from the main Nix Flake
  since it caused unnecessary evaluations and downloads. Instead the
  tests are available through a Nix Flake file inside the `tests`
  directory. See [](#sec-tests) for example commands.

- The `home-manager` Nix profile update that the Home Manager
  activation script has previously performed is now deprecated. The
  profile update is instead the responsibility of the software calling
  the activation script, such as the `home-manager` tool.

  The legacy behavior remains the default for backwards compatibility
  but may emit a deprecation warning in the future and in the longer
  term removed all together. If you have developed tooling that
  directly call the generated activation script, then you are
  encouraged to adapt to the new behavior. See
  [Activation](#sec-internals-activation) for details on how to call
  the activation script.

- The `home-manager switch` command now offers a `--rollback` option.
  When given, the switch performs a rollback to the Home Manager
  generation prior to the current before activating. While it was
  previously possible to accomplish this by manually activating an old
  generation, it always created a new profile generation. The new
  behavior mirrors the behavior of `nixos-rebuild switch --rollback`.
  See the [Rollbacks](#sec-usage-rollbacks) section for more.

- When using Home Manager as a NixOS or nix-darwin module we
  previously created an unnecessary `home-manager` per-user "shadow
  profile" for the user. This no longer happens. You can restore the
  old behavior by adding

  ``` nix
  home-manager.enableLegacyProfileManagement = true;
  ```

  to your configuration. This option is likely to be deprecated in the
  future.

## State Version Changes {#sec-release-25.05-state-version-changes}

The state version in this release includes the changes below. These
changes are only active if the `home.stateVersion` option is set to
\"25.05\" or later.

- No changes.
